[music]
that big story is really going to
continue to be AI and tech.
>> I think you stay in the mag 7.
>> You're still so early in this game that
it's very hard to declare where the
ultimate winners are going to be.
>> The same sectors that have been strong
for a couple years before are going to
continue to be strong. It doesn't take
much disruption to [music] have quite a
few domino effects that are going to
impact the market in a more holistic
[music] way.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Happy New Year. Welcome to
Bloomberg Surveillance. Starting 2026 on
an upbeat foot with futures rising in
early trading, building on three
straight years of double-digit returns.
But some big questions looming about
complacency with almost every single
Wall Street analyst feeling optimistic
about the year ahead and metals
continuing their rip roaring rally with
aluminum surmounting $3,000 a ton for
the first time since 2022.
Matt Miller I am so pleased to see say h
came back to join us for the next three
hours. Matt, wonderful to see you. John
and Amarie will be back on Monday. But
really to me the optimism is just really
notable heading [music] into this year.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, it is a big move in
futures if you discount the cash [music]
trade on New Year's Eve. I mean, we were
down 3/4 of 1% on Wednesday after a bad
day on Tuesday and a bad day on Monday.
So, [music] we haven't gained back uh
anything that we lost this week. Um I
would say it's still pretty bad.
>> So, if you sit in this chair, do you
have to be really bearish and negative
on the world? I mean, come on. We had an
incredible year, right? [music] We had
three straight years of double digit
gains. We haven't seen a fourth coming
back with that type of return going back
to the late 1990s. Everyone is
optimistic except for Matt Miller who's
sitting in that chair over there and
saying look we can build in this because
AI while overvalued in certain pockets
is truly a transform a transformative
technology.
>> Yeah. I mean look at all of the gainers
in the pre-market. They're all of the
same gainers from last year. Micron
Technologies one of the biggest winners
along with Vertive right [music] uh
dealing with nuclear power. You've got
Palunteer one of the biggest gainers
today. Tesla. Even though Tesla is going
to have delivered only 1.8 million cars
[music] in 2025, the stock is up today.
That's not a good signal for me.
>> Matt will continue with uh trying to
pour some cold water on what otherwise
would be an optimistic morning. He is
right about Tesla reporting sales
figures coming for the fourth quarter
later this day. And a real question
about its role as part of the
Magnificent 7. Right now, despite what
Matt is saying, you are seeing futures
green across the board, led by guess
what? Big tech [music] up 1.1%.
Screaming back after uh the
outperformance last year, you're seeing
S&P futures up 7/10en [music] of a
percent and Russell 2000. A real
question here about whether you get that
broadening up, up 9/10en of a percent.
If you take a [music] look at the bond
space, twos, tens, and 30s, continuing
the trend that we saw in 2025 as well
with yield curve [music] steepening.
Yes, you're getting a bid into bonds,
but look at that 30-year yield. 4.84%.
You're seeing the steepest [music] yield
curve going back to a couple days before
the beginning of the year. And the
metals trade, we have to keep coming
back to this. What is gold? What is
silver? What is aluminum? What is copper
telling you? It is telling you that the
physical world is getting more
expensive. The [music] fact that silver
is back on its terror with a 4% gain
after the volatility that we saw last
[music] week shows how much people are
still pouring into a trade that just had
its best year since 1979. [music]
Coming up this hour, Jeff U of BNY as
Wall Street looks to start the new year
strong. Andrew Bishop of Signnum Global
as President Trump threatens to
intervene with protests in Iran and Eric
Fish of HSBC. With retail's winners and
losers heading into this new year that
we currently are in, we begin this hour
with stocks pushing higher on the first
trading day of the year. Jeff U of BNY
in writing, investors are navigating a
market that feels both familiar and
fundamentally different. Growth is
uneven but still has room to run. Jeff
joins us now for more. Jeff, good
morning. Happy New Year. Wonderful to
see you. I want to start with something
that you said in your latest report,
which is sometimes it's better to ask
good questions than to have answers
right now. What are the key questions
you're looking at heading into this
year?
>> I think from clients point of view, um
the questions are, you know,
sustainability. As you've said, we've
had three uh good years of d of double
digit returns. Can we extend that to a
fourth and overall it's if I am
concerned about valuations and the like
and there is going to be a bit more of a
volatile path what are some of the
defensive positions how do I diversify I
think those are one of the questions as
a responsible investor you stay the
course you know if it ain't broke don't
fix it uh but you need to know where
some of the pitfalls are look at them in
advance and identify the insurance plays
I think that comprehensive uh that
comprehensive approach is going to be
the key question as we as allocate
heading into 2026.
>> Jeeoff, one of the key questions about
diversification is what are you
diversifying against? Is it inflation
risk or is it the risk of recession?
Because the potential diversifiers are
completely different depending on that
answer.
>> I totally agree with you and I think
it's different diversifiers for
different markets and also in different
regions. If I look at the run of
European data that we've um had this
morning, I'm afraid it's looking a bit
more stagflationary. So if we're going
to worry about inflation and worry about
stagflation environment, I would
probably worry more about Europe than
the US uh for this year. If I look at
APAC for example, you know, Asian um
bosses are doing quite well. So there's
a bit of a tech run there too. Uh so you
know, can that actually take place but
not at the expense of my tech
positioning in the US and elsewhere and
how do I defend against you know further
trade volatility up ahead. So I think
all of these aspects are important but
look at it on an individual market basis
and rather than uh you think that
there's one insurance player that can
defend against um everything. I don't
think that works anymore. What about the
broadening out Jeff that we've heard so
much about. There have been a lot of
head fakes. You know we finished the
year with all of the high bandwidth DRAM
makers winning the S&P 500, Western
Digital, SanDisk, Seagate, all the
biggest uh winners in terms of the
individual stocks. And then Robin Hood,
Pneumont, Lamb Research, Palunteer,
those are exactly the same stocks that
are up today in the pre-market. Are we
going to see a broadening out or is it
just going to be the same, you know, top
20 stocks pushing this rally into 26?
>> I think that goes to a broader question
about the broader economy. So, you know,
can that Kshaped um growth that we're
seeing not just in the US, but I think
other economies can sympathize as well.
Can that actually narrow a bit so that K
sort of converges the two arms of the K
uh into more um balanced growth? And
here's where we get a multiplier effect
into the broader economy. So can Main
Street benefit as well? If I look at our
underlying positioning data, yes, tech
has done well, but consumer related
segments have really softened uh and you
know that points to a margin story. You
know, that points to a demand story as
well. So, you know, can we um have that
the so-called trickle down effect into
main street? If that can happen then we
can see a broadening out from the tech
stocks you know which are overheld of
course you know heading into 2026 but
into some of the consumer oriented
stocks as well in the US and also in EM
I think that is a consensus view for the
year as as allocation into EM into EM
tech but for China you know for Japan
and for the rest can we see EM consumer
stocks do well are we going to see a
fiscal push benefit consumer so globally
it really is about Main Street if main
street can pick up then we'll see that
broadening out but I think on fiscal
side, markets are waiting to be
convinced.
>> Here in the in the US, of course,
everybody in markets wants to see or
everybody, I guess, long stocks wants to
see Fed cuts. Is that going to continue?
And and will that help Main Street,
Jeff? Is that going to be able to bring
down mortgage rates and auto loan rates,
which so far haven't responded very well
to 175 basis points of cuts. Uh so I
think the question is as the Fed cuts
rates and I think that that is going to
be a consensus view. Of course your cash
flow improves on the liability side.
What Main Street wants to see not just
in the US but around the world can real
incomes uh grow and if it can grow can
expectations pick up? You look at the UK
for example as Governor Bailey has
highlighted wage growth is very strong
but you're seeing savings rates go up as
well. Looks like the UK is going to run
a double digit savings rate on a
sustained basis which is unheard of
right. So what is it that's holding back
the consumer in the US, in the UK and
elsewhere and also in APAC? They're
sitting on high savings, but they're not
spending. They're not pushing it into
the broader economy. So I think that
requires more stability in terms of
their expectations. Yes, wage growth is
firm right now. Can that be maintained?
And the US economy, this no far no hire
economy, let's move into a more hiring
economy. I think that's what's needed to
get Main Street going and to lift the
consumer segment. Right now the
consensus is that the dollar will weaken
even if you do have stronger growth than
say in Europe and it's because of the
rate cuts that are expected. What do you
think is going to be the main driver for
the currency the actual growth rate or
the expected rate cuts by the Federal
Reserve with the rest of the central
banks around the world largely sitting
on their hands?
>> So I think it is going to be policy
differentials at the end of the day. So
as long as we go uh through this um
so-called uh hawkish cut approach with
the Fed, I think, you know, dollar
downside is going to be a bit more
limited. Um yes, there will be hedging
and the cost of hedging will factor into
that, you know, as rate differentials
shift around. But if I look at APAC,
right, APAC FX is where we see the most
capacity for strength against the
dollar. It's not going to be in Europe.
You I've been wrong on Euro dollar last
year. So this year I still think Euro is
looking a bit stagflationary. So I think
euro strength is going to be capp but
dollar weakness against the likes of the
rema against the likes of the yen that
is the consensus view but I'd be a bit
more cautious there too. Yes AP pack
currencies will rally in real terms but
in nominal terms I'd be a bit more
careful if China for example can shift
PPI from negative 2.2% 2.5% that's the
uh expect the um values I'm right now
towards positive2 positive3 that kind of
real effective exchange rate
appreciation is something that they
would probably be more happy with. Uh so
position for your dollar very very
carefully. If there's going to be dollar
weakness, I'd probably see it more
against APAC rather than European
currencies.
>> Speaking of China and sort of US versus
China dynamics, Xiinping over in China
had this New Year's message uh that he
gave in an address. China has become one
of the world's fastest rising economies
in terms of innovative capacity, giving
a nod to the the war in terms of AI
prowess between US and China. Do you
have a sense of who is going to come out
ahead at the end of 2026?
>> Uh so I think the uh direction uh for
innovation and AI if we look at it the
application for example is a bit
divergent. So I think you know both can
lead in terms of one is consumerf facing
in the US side on the industrial side
that's what China's focusing on but what
investors what the positioning is
looking at is can we see AI progress in
China and also beyond uh translate uh
into higher margins you know higher
earnings um growth and that can lift the
consumer that seems to be the missing
link in asset allocation right now but
having said that a lot of savings are
being pushed um into AI stocks in APAC
we've seen the IPOs the the reaction
over the last um 24 hours of trading or
so hence that theme is going to play out
in their different um fields of course
um but again can that translate into
growth into main street earnings and
wages uh and lift you know Chinese uh
consumer spending as well that will
require not just on the corporate side
but on the fiscal side I think that's
going to be one of the big pushes uh for
EM growth uh this year and will have you
know positive benefits of the rest of
the world as well if you look at Europe
for example it wants to see stronger
Chinese demand that trade deficit
certainly needs narrowing
>> yeah that's definitely going to be a big
question about the fiscal impulse not
only in the United States and Europe but
also in China. Jeff, wonderful to get
your thoughts as always. Jeff of BNY
there from London and he was talking
about China versus the US. It seems like
China's already taken the lead, Matt,
when it comes to electric vehicles,
particularly BYD versus Tesla.
>> Oh yeah, BYD absolutely crushing it. But
it's important to note that they make
far uh less expensive vehicles, right?
And they're in a market that's really
accepting of EVs. What what I think is
is awesome to watch is BYD getting an
inroad into Europe, right? Cars starting
to sell there. And here in the US, you
can't yet buy them, but I do know some
auto executives that have imported them
for research purposes and are really
bullish on the build quality. So, really
interesting story.
>> We're going to be getting more on that
in just a minute. Let's get more on that
and other stories. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. We begin with tragedy in
Switzerland. Officials say that around
40 people have died in a fire at a ski
resort bar where party girls were
celebrating the new year. They estimate
that more than a hundred others have
been injured after flames ripped through
the bar at the popular Alpine Resort
Clana. Eyewitnesses said that a sparkler
in a bottle ignited the ceiling.
Elsewhere, the US continuing to ramp up
the pressure on Venezuela. The Trump
administration sanctioned Chinese
companies and oil tankers linked to
Venezuela. This [music] comes as the US
launches more strikes on purported drug
trafficking boats. Venezuelan President
Nicholas Maduro [music] says that he's
open to negotiating with the US to
combat drug trafficking, but said the US
is trying to force him [music] from
power and gain access to Venezuela's oil
reserves. And as you were discussing,
BYD likely surpassed Tesla to become the
world's largest electric [music] vehicle
maker in 2025. The Chinese company met
its fullear sales target, delivering
nearly 8% more vehicles than the [music]
year before. However, BYYD is now facing
growing pressure as China scales [music]
back some incentives supporting EV
purchases as well as growing domestic
competition. And that should be very
brief, Lisa. Thank you so much, Lizzie.
Up next, locked and loaded President
Trump threatening to intervene [music]
if Iran kills peaceful protesters.
Andrew Bishop of Signum Global joins us
next as the international focus
continues at the White House. This is
[music] Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Starting the year with some gains after
a pretty soggy end to 2025. Nonetheless,
building on three straight years of
double-digit returns, which you are
seeing in the NASDAQ is more than a 1%
uh boost in futures. S&P futures up 610
of a percent, so [music] about half of
that gain that you're seeing in the tech
heavy sectors. Euro dollar still around
117. 10-year yields have been higher. It
is notable to see today we're getting a
bit of a bid into bonds, but we [music]
did end the year and continue to start
the new one with a steeping in the yield
curve. Aluminum [music] up half a
percent. We are seeing aluminum past
$3,000 a ton for the first time going
back more than 3 years. It seems like
Matt, the metals trade still very very
hot.
>> Yeah, [music] it's interesting. Um, we
heard last week from Elon Musk or maybe
it was earlier this week pre New Year's
Eve about the importance of silver
obviously for production of uh cars.
It's a key asset. And then aluminum is
even more important. I mean aluminum
[music] and steel together make up about
65% of the average car cost. And for a
company like Ford, which had a fire at
its Nollas plant, um it's even more
important because the F-150, the
bestselling name plate in automotive uh
for the US, [music] is an aluminum
truck. So, it's a very big problem for
car makers.
>> Yeah. Especially because there's a real
question about the supplies, where the
supplies are going to come from and how
available they will be. Internationally,
that is increasingly a focus as the
White House [music] shifts its uh focus
to geopolitics. And it raises questions
about what the capacity is to act
[music] in international waters. Under
surveillance this morning, locked and
loaded, President Trump saying the US is
ready to rescue Iranian protesters if
they are attacked by authorities.
Protests escalating over the country's
deepening economic crisis. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now from
Washington. Tyler, locked and loaded.
What does that mean?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. Well,
President Trump did not provide
specifics on what actions he was
considering taking, but it does mark an
escalation in what has been a series of
threats in recent days by the US.
Earlier this week, President Trump vowed
next to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu to strike Iran again if it
rebuilds its nuclear program. Of course,
international sanctions against Iran's
nuclear ambitions have led to the
widespread economic problems that are
fueling these protests. from inflation
to a currency that's rapidly
depreciated, losing 60% of its value
since the June war with Israel. Now, our
analysts at Bloomberg Intelligence say
that there is a very strong likelihood
that we could see Iran taking a more
heavy-handed approach to these protests
if they do continue in the coming days.
And while President Trump has long vowed
to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions, these
remarks overnight do signal more of a
willingness to intervene in a foreign
crisis. Something that he broadly
campaigned against, but of course comes
against this broader geopolitical
backdrop that the White House has been
escalating tensions with Venezuela,
taking in recent days actions to uh curb
the so-called shadow fleet that
Venezuela and Iran actually share to
transport their oil. Now, Lisa,
President Trump earlier this week did
confirm that he would be willing to
engage directly in bilateral talks with
Iran uh since those discussions have
stalled. In fact, you'll recall it was
Anne Marie who back in March had
reported that this White House gave Iran
two months to reach a deal on its
nuclear program which obviously never
materialized.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much. And
yes, Emory will be back in the seat on
Monday to continue with that reporting.
Andrew Bishop of Signal Global joins us
now for more. Andrew, what do you make
of this locked and loaded comment? Do
you think that there actually are plans
in place to intervene by the US in Iran?
>> So, I don't think the plan is to
intervene. I think this should be read
mainly as um attempting to give the
protesters a chance, right? So, to
essentially tell the regime there should
be a red line not to cross and that is
quote unquote violently kill. Um I think
it is interesting and and a bit gruesome
but interesting the way that the
president chose his words. uh that
essentially supposes that if they are
killed but perhaps not shot out during
protest but instead arrested and you
know disappeared uh that would be a
little less uh sort of crossing the
president's red lines also potentially
shot out shot at with rubber bullets. Uh
we know that in previous protests the
regime used that to blind protesters.
These are gruesome details but I think
that they actually should be read uh in
in the context of the president's choice
of words. So what would we do with
people if we save them there? Does that
mean we'd bring them here as refugees?
>> No, no, no. I I I think what would
happen if the president were to
intervene in the conflict is that the US
would essentially target um the security
apparatus. So we would essentially
launch I mean to put it very simply at
tomahawk missiles on IRGC uh domestic
facilities especially besiege sort of
the the more hardcore uh security forces
meant to to keep control of the
situation. We would essentially attack
those and hope that the protesters can
can then have a chance at overwhelming
the regime security apparatus. I thought
it was interesting that, you know, we've
been chasing this uh oil tanker Bell 1,
which came out of Iran, went to
Venezuela, and is now headed, I guess,
to Russia. The Russians have have
claimed this tanker, and it looks like
maybe we'll give them a little leeway
because it's uh it's Russia. At the same
time, we're sanctioning Chinese and Hong
Kong uh based tankers. Are we giving
Russia a little bit more leeway because
we want to get a truce or or or an end
to this conflict in in Ukraine?
Yes, but I would say the bigger
difference between Russia and China is
the fact that the the US um you know
really doesn't have the ability to put
any pressure on on on on China at all.
So, you know, we we we sort of are in
the Kabuki dance phase with China where
we pretend to to impose sanctions but
they don't actually bite. Um so I think
that's that's the biggest difference.
>> So what will we do? I mean um President
Trump started this trade war with China
in his first term. Um, President Biden
actually carried it on in a sense, but
now it looks like the Chinese have
realized that their access and and
refining capabilities with rare earth
minerals gives them a massive advantage.
Is there anything we can do? Not in the
short term. Uh, I think in the short
term, the the US uh and this
administration have come to realize that
there really is nothing that the US can
do to minimize China's overwhelming
leverage over the US. And that's why
we're seeing the president take such a
soft dovish approach to China. Yes, he's
a dealmaker, but some of the deals that
he struck over the past um you know few
months with China are borderline
humiliating. I think from an apolitical
standpoint, right? This famous sort of
uh high-end uh chips in exchange for
soybeans. It's pretty much from a
bipartisan perspective, I think it's
fair to say that's not a great deal for
the US. Um and and that's that's just a
recognition of the US's weaker hand in
the short term.
>> How much is this the reason why China is
doing these drills around Taiwan right
now?
>> So, it is and it isn't. um China would
probably be conducting these drills.
It's it's conducted drills like these
every year, sometimes twice a year for
the past several years. So, in that
sense, it's not particularly surprising.
I don't think it's necessarily uh a
result of the president's sort of soft
approach to to to China. Um what's
interesting or or or what's maybe more
political is China's takeaways from the
president's reaction to the drills,
right? Um, I think the State
Department's uh press release yesterday
that sort of condemned the drills and
took a harsher tone was a was an attempt
to not send the wrong message to China.
But the president's decision to
essentially say, you know, President
Susan Ping hasn't talked to me about
this. It's not a big deal. That is the
kind of thing that that she notes down
writes down and potentially, let's be
very clear about it. Potentially factors
into his decision to attack Taiwan for
good at some point. So there's sort of a
p paniply of potential risks
geopolitically that people are looking
at for next year. On one hand you've got
the China Taiwan issue. On the other
hand, you've got Russia Ukraine. You of
course also have Iran as we were just
talking about. Then you have Venezuela
that has also been increasingly ground
zero for a proxy between the US and
China with China getting increasingly
influential in South America. Which of
those do you think is going to be the
most significant heading into this year?
So on the question of likelihood, it's
Venezuela because um there is a real
chance for the US to essentially ensure
that Maduro is no longer in power.
Whether that's you know kinetic action,
CIA covert ops, etc. One can debate or
even striking a deal with him. But let
let's put it like this. Um I think the
odds of Maduro being out of power at the
end of the year are well above 50%. Um,
and that's not something that could be
said about the Iran situation or about
an end to the war in Ukraine and so on
and so forth just because those
situations are far more complicated,
right? So in Iran, for example, these
protests have legs. But to really go
from this to actually toppling the
regime, it requires a lot of steps. The
security forces have to defect. They
then have to take over the hardliners
and win and so on and so forth. That's
much harder than just essentially taking
out uh Maduro. So from a likelihood
perspective I would say Maduro from a
impact perspective it would definitely
be Iran. I mean Iran uh you know uh
turning into a different regime would
have massive regional implications.
>> Andrew Bishop of Signnum thank you so
much for being with us and look forward
to speaking you with you uh throughout
the year. Coming up Dan Ives of Wbush
sharing his top AI picks for 2026. The
changing nature of the technology trade.
Plus Lizzie Bing returns with your
morning movers. Tesla rising ahead of
its fourth quarter delivery report even
though [music] it is expected to be a
decline. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
[music]
>> Well, Matt might be a little bit bearish
right now, but the rest of the world
seems to be starting the year on a good
foot. I don't know how you're looking at
a 1.1% gain on a NASDAQ futures and
seeing doom and gloom. Matt Miller,
>> I'm not bearish. I'm just skeptical,
right? Because the NASDAQ was down
9/10en of a percent on Wednesday. So,
the fact that we're up 1.1% in futures
today doesn't mean a heck of a lot to
me.
>> Oh, that's a very valid point,
especially because [music] typically the
first day does not indicate the
direction of the year. Nonetheless, we
are building on some of the enthusiasm
that we saw for three straight years of
double digit gains led by uh the tech
space. You are seeing NASDAQ futures up
1%, S&P futures up at 6/10en [music] of
a percent. Russell 2000 doing a bit
better at uh 3/4 of a percent and
possibly because of the bid into bonds,
twos, tens, [music] and 30s. You are
seeing some sort of reprisal after the
best year for the debt going back to
2020. A question here though about the
shape of the yield curve that steepening
[music] continuing this morning with a
30-year yield at 4.84% versus that
2-year that's just been pegged [music]
around 3.46 3.47.
Three hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Lizzie
Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. Well, look Matt, it's not doom
and gloom on my screen. We're going to
zoom in on the pre-market movers for the
Mag 7. And we're all in the green. You
see, this is the optimism [music]
continuing from last year when it comes
to the AI theme. And of course, we saw
25% gains for the Mag 7 in 2025. So
[music] buyers, we're still in buying
mode when it comes to this for day one
of trading right now. But flip over and
I want to turn to aluminum aluminium for
the Brits out there. We're up uh past
the $3,000 a ton mark for the first time
in 3 years. And these names are
benefiting as well. Alcoa here up 1.8%
[music]
in the pre-market. You've got supply
factors going into this in Europe and
[music] China, but also demand factors,
bets on construction and the renewables
sector as well. Going back to the Mag 7
finally, and I want to zoom in on Tesla
this time because, as you say, we've got
the Q4 production and deliveries report
coming out [music] later today. They
took the unusual step though for context
earlier this week of giving us a flavor
of the sales numbers outlook and [music]
pretty disappointing compared to what
some investors were expecting. So we're
up 2.15% in the pre-market but do factor
in that disappointment earlier in the
week. Lisa, [music] back to you. Thank
you so much Lizzie. On our radar this
morning, the US ramping up pressure on
Venezuela with new sanctions on Chinese
tankers [music] accused of evading
restrictions and fresh strikes against
alleged drug traffickers. Venezuelan
President Nicholas Maduro saying he's
open to negotiating, but claims the
moves are a pretext to seize the
nation's oil. Meanwhile, the US is
cutting controversial tariffs on some
Italian pasta brands. The Commerce
Department slashing retaliatory rates
down from nearly 92% of of now down 92%
down to as low as 2%. Italy's foreign
ministry calling the move a win for
cooperation though final rates won't be
set until March. And this continues,
Matt, with this theme of either putting
off or cutting the actual rates of
tariffs.
>> Yeah. Um I I thought uh really
interesting because I'm always looking
at Ethan Allen, that business just right
up the street here on uh a Third Avenue,
that it was interesting on Wednesday
when President Trump delayed tariffs on
upholstered furniture and kitchen
cabinetry as well as vanities. Like they
get pretty specific, but um this is
something that uh had been really
interesting to me as a consumer of these
things and because I talked to the CEO
uh quite often at Ethan Allen. So, um,
it does seem like he's backing off to
some extent of things that would hurt
affordability for the average American
>> until early 2027 after the midterm
election. Sort of a key point there in
terms of timing. Meanwhile, BYD, as we
were talking about earlier, meeting its
fullear sales target, delivering a
record amount of vehicles in 2025. The
surge officially puts the Chinese giant
on track to dethrone Tesla as the
world's top EV maker. Tesla set to
release their sales results later this
morning and they are expected to be
lower. But Matt, is it even really still
part of the Magnificent 7 as a car
company or is it as an AI company, as a
robotics company, as an autonomous
driving company?
>> I mean, you're you're 100% right. This
is not valued as a car maker. At $1.5
trillion, Tesla has a higher market cap
than every single other car maker in the
world. Even if you throw in like Kigseg
and Pagani, right? Um, so it doesn't
matter that they sell 1.8 million or 2
million, if they sell 3 million or one.
It it's still um not part of the
calculus that the stock buyers are doing
to value this company. And I also don't
think it's an applesto apples comparison
with BYD because they sell luxury
vehicles at Tesla for the most part,
right? And BYD is selling some vehicles
for as little as 10 or $15,000 a piece.
It's a different product. a clinic for
why the shares of Tesla are rising in
pre-market trading despite some of those
negative expectations. Sticking with te
tech bush out with its top AI stocks for
2026, Dan Ies writing, "Heading into
2026, investors are both excited and
nervous about the AI revolution. 2026 is
an inflection point year." Dan joins us
now with his colorful self. Happy New
Year. Wonderful to see you as always.
>> So, let's talk about that. Why is it an
inflection point? What do you mean by
that? It's really about to me it's about
the second, third, fourth derivatives
playing out across AI. Look, it's
monetization and you talk about Tesla.
It's the next phase in terms of
autonomous robotics, consumer AI,
especially when it comes to Apple. And I
think what we're going to see, look, I
think it's a it's a prove it year, but
that actually makes me more bullish
because I think now we go into the next
phase of AI. I think tech stocks are up
20 25% in 2026. But it's not just big
tech. It's about second, third, fourth
derivatives playing out.
>> I I will be fascinated to see. I don't
think anything is officially expected.
But you're going to CES, right, which is
not only the biggest tech uh conference
in the world, but has become the most
important car maker conference as well.
It'll be fascinating to see if Tesla
comes out with any other products there.
Um or if we see a lot more robotics and
automization products.
>> Yeah. And to your look, it all starts
with the godfather of AI, Jensen. He'll
be there with the black leather jacket
because when his speech to me is just so
important on Monday because it really
starts off strategically what AI is
going to look like. He's going to talk
about physical AI terms of autonomous
robotics and the two best physical AI
plays in the world today. It's Nvidia
and it's Tesla. And I think that speaks
to you to about Tesla what everyone's
focused on. This is autonomous chapter
now coming to Tesla. I think you see
Musk right now wartime CEO that's the
focus when it comes to AI but also it's
the monetization remember only 3% of US
companies have gone down the AI path so
far
>> are these robots expected to be like B2B
robots so building things in factories
or like a Roomba for consumers um what
kind of products do you expect them to
to monetize
>> yeah especially at C look humanoid
robotics is going to be front and center
autonomous you're seeing flying cars a
lot the chi look the the presence you
you talk about a lot of the tensions
between US and China the presence of
Chinese companies is going to be it's
going to be a monster in terms of what
we see there and I think doubling you
know over the last few years but I think
it's really going to be about humanoid
robotics it's going to be about
autonomous but it's going to this is
also going to be about more embedded AI
devices that consumers are going to see
CES we're not just talking about flying
drones and refriger refrigerators that
talk to you. Now, these are much more
sort of front and center in terms of
it's a who's who. Every big tech player
is going to be there. Even if they're
not unofficially there, they're there to
look for acquisitions.
>> I love the idea of opening the
refrigerator and having it say, do you
really want that? And I can just imagine
the future for, you know, move over
Ompic. So, there's this question here
also about what some of the moves in
late 2025 mean. And I'd love your take
on this because we saw some acquisitions
uh made by the likes of Meta and Nvidia
and I just wonder whether there's more
cost consciousness and more of a
competitive advantage that they're
looking to solidify at a time where
suddenly companies are saying hold on
what are we paying for this and what are
we actually getting?
>> Look, I think you hit on a great point
because the reality is this isn't it's
an arms race. That's what's going on
with big tech. And right now at the top
of that mountain is big tech. And when
you look at like Google's win versus
DOJ, antirust, I mean, this is sort of
go time for big tech. And I think you're
going to see more and more acquisitions.
You we've talked about not just on
enterprise, on energy, and I think
really across the board. And it it
speaks to really what we're seeing right
here is that it's not just about big
tech getting bigger and bigger, doing
acquisitions, spending. You're going to
have 600 billion in capbacks in big
tech, but it's also going to see other
players being like, don't forget about
me. Look at AMD. You know, you you're
going to see like look at Cisco, look at
other look at IBM. I mean, there's going
to be a lot of other players saying
like, hey, we want to get into that AI
party. We don't want to look through the
windows, you know, like a lot of the
bears are.
>> We were talking about BYD triumph over
Tesla to become the world's biggest
electric vehicle manufacturer. We also
have seen big tech in China outperform
on an equity market perspective in 2025.
Do you expect that to continue and for
China to really solidify more of its
neck-and-neck position with the US or
even supersede it?
>> Look, I think the reality is for the
first time in 30 years, US is ahead of
China when it comes to tech. And I think
that's very important obviously led by
Nvidia, Microsoft, Palanteer and others.
But in China, look, we're we're bullish
on China tech. We talk about Alibaba,
you look at Tencent, you look at a lot
of the other names there. I think what
you're seeing is it's a narrowing, but
it's something where you're seeing
robotics really play front and center,
autonomous, EVs, BYD, and others in
China. But when you think about the how
to play it, you have to play US tech and
then there are Chinese tech players to
go after. But in terms of AI revolution,
we said it's third inning, one out
relative to this AI game. And I think
the Bears, like I said, like in
hibernation mode, they can see AI in the
spreadsheets. And I think 2026 is going
to be a year that's going to be another
bull market year for, you know, for TAC
and for AI. I I I had really the same
question as Lisa again because we've
seen so many stories this morning about
BU's chip unit filing for an IPO.
Another uh chip designer I think Bryer
um with a very successful IPO today.
Another maybe another mini deepseek
moment right with um a cheaper
artificial intelligence all among the
most read stories on the Bloomberg
terminal. So clients are paying
attention to what's going on in China
with AI. How do you bet on that? I mean,
do you buy the individual stocks? Is
there an ETF that you like? Do you have
some of these stocks in your ETF?
>> Yeah, sure. So, obviously, you know, for
the Ives ETF, I mean, what we really
focus on is the the AI30. You know,
there's like who are the 30 winners? We
have a few of the Chinese players in
there. I think BU, you know, you look at
Huawei in terms of the success they're
having. Look, right now, Nvidia's four
to five years ahead of any other chip
player. And I think that's well known.
That's why even a third rate H200
restricted China big tech's going to
line up despite where the politics in
Beijing. But this is an arms race.
You're it's the narrowing of the gap.
You want to play some of those Chinese
tech players. But the reality is in the
US from Nvidia, AMD. We talked about our
top five, Palunteer, Crowd and Cyberc,
Tesla, I think it's going to be the most
important year ever for them. Microsoft
I think on hypers scale right now.
Microsoft, Oracle, those are names I
think, you know, table pounders in my
opinion in terms of what we're seeing.
And then Apple finally, you know, they
come to the AI party instead of being on
the treadmill 2.0 speed and now they
actually start to get in terms of the
consumer AI revolution, $75 to $100 per
share.
>> There's only one company that you didn't
mention that's on your list, and that's
Microsoft. Where is Microsoft in terms
of winning out versus Google? Who is its
main competitor? Look, in terms of
Redmond, what they're the enterprise,
this is their backyard. When you think
about companies that are moving to AI,
they're the first phone call goes to
Nadella. And I think you're seeing
Google, you're seeing Amazon, what
Jassee is doing, they're narrowing the
gap and they're going to be success. But
when I look at when I look at Microsoft,
you have 25 30 billion incremental
monetization that I don't even think is
factor into street numbers. That's
right. And the stock ultimately has a
six in front of it. And I think this is
gonna be we're gonna go into January
into earnings season. I think that's
going to be kind of the show me story
showing like look this is not stopping
like we said AI party started at 9:00
p.m. is now 10:30 10:45 p.m. Me and Lisa
are asleep 100%. That's exactly what I
was [laughter] that party but but the
party goes to 4:00 a.m. and and and
that's where we are.
>> Yeah. I'll wake up when the party's
ending. Dan Ies wonderful to see you.
It's always a good day when Dan Ies
graces the door of Wed Bush. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
bloom brief with Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. President Trump pledged in a
late night social media post that the US
will come to the rescue of Iranian
protesters if they're attacked by
Islamic Republic authorities. The post
comes after protests erupted this week
in Thran after the currency slumped to a
record low. Demonstrations [music]
have since spread to other parts of the
country, setting off clashes between
civilians and security forces.
Elsewhere, Zoffran Mandani, a 34year-old
Democratic socialist, was sworn in as
the mayor of New York City. Mandani's
campaign focused [music] on
affordability, promising to freeze rent
on the city's nearly 1 million
rentstabilized apartments, make buses
fast and free, and [music] deliver
universal child care funded by raising
taxes on the ultra wealthy. Mandani
faces challenges though, including
maintaining the support of Governor
Kathy Hokll and the state's legislature.
[music]
and Shanghai Byron shares jumped nearly
76% in its trading debut. The AI chip
designer's IPO marked the best [music]
first day performance since early 2021
among Hong Kong listings that raised at
least $700 million. This [music] as
China's tech sector boosts its efforts
as you were discussing to strengthen
domestic alternatives in response to US
curves. And that should be my brief,
Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Lizzie. Up next, the
strong US consumer.
Holiday season was solid. Consumers are
cautious and discerning, but they'll buy
what they don't have.
>> Eric Fish of HSBC joins us next to talk
about what they don't have and want to
buy and what that means about consumer
sales in 2026. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Well, the Santa rally didn't really work
heading [music] into the end of last
year, but the Santa rally still has two
more days left and right now we're
trying to get off to a good start. We're
seeing S&P futures up 610 [music] of a
percent. NASDAQ futures up about a
percent. Taking a look at that 10-year
yield, you are seeing a bit of a bid
into [music] bonds, but still more
elevated than where we ended the year.
10-year yields at 4.15%
yield curve steepening, very much
present. Crude was higher earlier in the
session on concerns about geopolitics,
whether it's Venezuela or Iran. Now, a
bid back in or rather people selling
crude once again down about a third of a
percent. Under surveillance this
morning, the strong US consumer
holiday season was solid. The product
newness drove demand and with the
K-shaped economy that we have, [music]
you're definitely seeing at the higher
end and the lower end looking for value.
And that's where you saw some [music] of
the traffic. Consumers are cautious and
discerning, but they'll buy what they
don't have. Here's the latest. US
consumers showing resilience this
holiday season, pushing retail spending
up 4% year-over-year. Eric Fish of HSBC
writing, "Confidence is holding. Strong
employment and early shift in outerwear
suggests shoppers remain optimistic even
if they're choosier about paying full
price. Eric joins us now as the
temperature in New York turns to be
about 20° out there. Fahrenheit. I mean,
we're talking about outerwear. How come
when the weather is warmer than expected
in December, people say, "Oh, it's the
weather that's causing sales to be low."
And then when you have weather actually
being cold and people go out and buy
jackets, people say it's because the
consumer is optimistic. Yeah, you really
need early shopping for outerwear to
show optimism. So, it's this year we
really did see that. We saw consumers
shopping in in the fall and that to me
that's a sign of optimism because of
exactly what you're describing. It's not
cold yet and you can always defer a coat
purchase for another year. So, it's a
good sign. We did see that carry through
all the way through December. So, across
categories including outerwear, we saw
strong sales all the way through
Christmas. They bought a jacket in
October and then realized they needed
another one because it is so cold out
there. I do wonder just more broadly how
you evaluate this K-shaped consumer and
whether this strength truly is
broad-based and whether it's sustainable
in this year.
>> Yeah, we we did see it across price
points. So uh throughout the year early
in the year there was a lot of pessimism
uh around tariffs and I think the
retailers acknowledged that and
responded by holding prices firm and the
consumer has shopped as a result. I
think going into next year with the
strong sales we saw especially through
holiday I think retailers are going to
be a little bit more aggressive in terms
of recouping some of that lost margin.
How much do you have to pay attention to
uh credit card APRs and and how have
they changed? Because I imagine if the
consumer is so rate sensitive when it
comes to mortgages or car loans, that
must be the same with credit card
spending.
>> Yeah, I I think the consumers that are
building debt are not paying attention
to those APRs.
>> Um the the stat that I look at the most
is really employment.
>> When you're gainfully employed and
confident in your employment, you're
spending almost regardless of some of
those factors. And vice versa is also
true. when you're concerned about your
job, regardless of how much savings you
have, you pull back on that spending.
>> So, a lot of the items that we're
talking about outerwear are high price
uh items. Are they are these consumers
buying these in cash? Are they
borrowing, you know, using a credit card
that they don't know the APR of to buy
these things? And does that matter?
>> Yeah, I I think so credit card uh debt
has risen, savings has decreased. I
think it's generally in line with
historical levels. We saw really an
unnatural increase in savings through
COVID and that's reduced. So again, I I
don't have a concern about that
specifically. Employment is the key
factor and uh a slight uptick in
unemployment, but I think it's holding
where I think we'll see a confident
concern.
>> I see, by the way, the average APR at
21.39%.
>> Yeah. Is this something that you check
as you spend a little bit more than you
are now? We don't use credit cards. I
was burned as a college student and I've
never gone back.
>> Well, good to know.
>> Yeah, a lot of people do.
>> Maybe you can buy on credit uh at some
point that kilt that you're going to be
wearing at the end of this year. There
is this question that you said uh that a
lot of retailers are looking to make up
the margins they lost at the end of last
year. That's a really important point,
especially ahead of that jobs number
that we get next Friday. Is this price
is increasing significantly? You expect
that a lot of uh retailers have held off
on raising prices through the holiday
season but are poised to do just that at
the beginning of this year?
>> Yeah, there throughout this past year
there was shared pain between the
manufacturer, the wholesaler or the
brand and then the retailer and a little
bit on the consumer. I think all of
those um companies are now going to look
to recover that. So, we're going to see
prices continue to rise. This holiday
period was the last phase of product
that was really committed to,
manufactured, purchased, imported before
tariffs, right? All of that was
happening well before. As we go into
2026, people are going to want to have
their historical margin rates. And so, I
think we're going to see all that built
into the price.
>> Are we going to
see manufacturing come back to the US? I
mean, this is kind of the at least one
of the points of these tariffs, right?
We're all about delobalization now. We
don't care if we can get it cheaper
elsewhere. We want it to be built here
in America. And there's still like if I
think of retail, only a few examples of
like Filson and shot. There's not a ton
that's really made here.
>> Yeah. We're a far distance from t-shirts
being manufactured domestically. I think
what will happen is there will be
shifts. So as you look at the tariff
rates, companies are looking at them
across different geographies, moving
more production to Latin America,
looking uh to diversify their supply
chain. Absolutely. So I think we will
see shifts nearshoring and and domestic
production I think is unlikely.
>> Eric, you're saying that we are going to
see price increases. Can you give us
some sort of rough percentage of what
type of price increase we're expecting?
I is it going to be four, five percent?
Is it going to be six, seven? Is it
going to be, you know, 10 to 12? Uh,
[laughter] I think
>> she had to slip it in. She had to slip
it in and she warned me beforehand.
>> I know. Well, I I've heard it's
[laughter] over. I don't think it's
over. I may I never really understood it
to begin with.
>> There's not It's nothing to understand.
Anyway, let let him answer the question.
Let's move forward. [laughter]
>> So, what I would say is it's going to be
all of those percentages for different
products. And the reason is some
products you can shift easily. So from a
high tariff country to a lower tariff
country others silks, cashmere,
footwear, uh certain other categories uh
are very difficult to move. There's a
lot of uh investment that goes into
building a factory. So I think those
will see higher increases. There are
also strategies people are using just to
to mitigate the tariff impact from an
accounting perspective. Um, so I don't
think it's going to be the full impact,
but it will vary depending on the
category.
>> Eric Fish of HSBC, wonderful to see you.
Thank you so much. Thank you. And yes, I
did slip it in because I heard from our
producer this morning that 67 is over
and now it's cream cheese bagel, which
is I mean news in my household, but
evidently that's the case.
>> Thank goodness neither of those have
reached my home yet. I don't I don't
really get it, but I appreciate it.
>> It's not about get it. It's just sort of
about saying it and then laughing. And
it's a really good icebreaker at home
when everyone's sort of quiet at dinner.
67 everyone's like okay mom and then
they start let's move on. Coming up next
not that Peter Shear of Academy
Securities Mark Chandler of Banic Burn
and Dana Peterson of the conference
board as we head into a big week of
data. We're finally going to get the
first non manipulated data or I
shouldn't say manipulated but uh
confused data post the government
shutdown. We get the non-farm payrolls
[music] on Friday from New York. Good
morning. Happy new year. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> that big story is really going to
continue to be AI and tech.
>> I think you stay in the Mag 7. It's
still so early in this game that it's
very hard to declare where the ultimate
winners are going to be.
>> The same sectors that have been strong
for a couple years before are going to
continue to be strong. It doesn't take
much disruption to have quite a few
domino effects that [music] are going to
impact the market in a more holistic
way.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance as we kick off 2026.
Optimism abounding, futures rising amid
widespread optimism about the
continuation of the three-year bull
market. Big tech still the big focus
with Tesla reporting [music] its fourth
quarter vehicle sales later today amid
questions about its membership in the
Magnificent 7 and heading into a big
week of economic data with analysts
looking to January 9th [music] for the
first solid jobs report since the
government shutdown. Matt Miller is with
me uh today, this morning, which is a
good and wonderful thing. John and Amaru
will be coming back on Monday. A
question here about the optimism that
everybody has on Wall Street. Does that
make you Matt Miller sitting in that
seat more pessimistic?
>> No, I'm not uh I'm not pessimistic. I'm
just skeptical of these one-day moves
saying something about 2026. I am
optimistic about the broader technology
of AI. I just checked my screen usage
and I've been on chat GPT for an average
of 3 hours and 1 minute a day over the
last [music] week. So
>> you have asking what
>> it's incredibly useful for me whether
I'm working on my motorcycles, whether
I'm doing something in the car, whether
I'm well those are the two things that I
do, you know. [laughter] Um it it really
is helpful. I actually uh use chat GPT
to help fix my boiler. It identified an
igniter coil that was out and helped me
order a new one and I used it to help
fix my oven as well over the last week.
>> Matt Miller who is getting royalties for
his chatbt use just
>> I also use Gemini. I also use
you see that kind of optimism really
percolating through to some of the tech
names this morning. You are seeing them
reprise their leadership which raises
the question of what is going to be
different in 2026 about the tech trade.
We were just speaking with Dan Ies about
that and honestly that is going to be
one of the key. Can you, Matt, see that
broadening out that you saw at the end
of last year? If you see the adoption of
some [music] of these tools where people
can, you know, manufacture their their
their motorcycles better.
>> Yeah. I uh I wonder if it comes through
in healthcare. You know, I wonder if it
comes through in education. These are
obviously the things that we hear from
guests every day, but I just uh I don't
know if I've seen it yet. And that would
be great for not only society but
[music] also for the stocks
>> which is the reason why maybe today you
are seeing a bit of outperformance in
the uh magnificent 7 with the NASDAQ
futures up about a 1%. I take your point
Matt typically [music] the first day of
trading doesn't really mean much. You do
see in bonds a little bit of a bid into
the fixed income space after the best
year going [music] back to 2020. A
question of where the outperformance is.
It is in the belly of the curve. It is
in the 10-year [music]
yield of 4.15 down about a basis point.
The 30-year yield still sort of pegged
at that 4.84%
level. And in the metal space, you have
seen such a huge rally over the 2025
best year for gold and silver going back
to [music] 1979, continuing with that
trend. Silver back on its volatile
trend. You see 3 and a half% gain on
silver. Aluminum crossing that $3,000 a
[music] ton mark for the first time
going back more than three years. Coming
up this hour, Peter Shear of Academy
with [music] stocks poised for a strong
start to the new year and a big proc
focus. Mark Chandler of Banickburn
following the dollar's worst year since
2017. And Dana Peterson of the
Conference Board looking for a clear
read on the economy. We begin this hour
with stocks higher following four days
of losses. Peter Shear of Academy
writing, "We need to make sure we pay
attention to the rest of the world.
There were a lot of opportunities around
the globe last year and there will
continue to be going forward." Peter
joins us now. Peter, great to see you.
Happy New Year.
>> Happy New Year, too.
>> So, you talk about the rest of the world
focus. Is it at the expense of the US?
Is it only if you do see the dollar
continue to weaken?
>> I think the weakening dollar is going to
continue to be a story. I think that's
going to be a big role in this. But I do
think emerging markets could do very
well, especially Latin America, South
America. I think we have turned our
attention to Latin and South America.
Look what we're trying to do with
Venezuela, assuming that is successful.
I think then we turn our attention to
working with Mexico and their cartels.
So I think there's a huge opportunity
within that space for more and more
business and again I know we've been
talking about America first but we're
not talking about America only. So I
think as we try and build out these
industries these things that we need
there is a dawning realization within
the administration we are going to have
to work with our close allies and
friends and close can both mean you know
physically as well. So I think central
South America is going to be a
beneficiary. So I like that part of the
world best and Europe's going to have to
figure out something to do. I think
Europe's going to be a bit slow to on
the uptake, but I think they're
eventually going to figure out this
production for security and rebuild
their industrial base as well.
>> You're bullish on Latin America. Some of
the changes you're thinking about could
go either way. And I think a lot of
people feel some level of ambiguity when
you start talking about Nicholas Maduro
and regime change over in Venezuela and
you start talking about a question of
whether this is going to be a benefit or
whether it's going to be a detraction to
some of the production in some of these
areas. I'm just wondering why do you see
it as an unabated opportunity even at a
time where the US and China seem to be
tit for tat in South America?
>> So I think that's a great point on
China. One, I think look what we're
doing with Argentina, right? We provided
the swap lines. We are going to try and
rebuild our foothold into Argentina. I
think we will be successful in pushing
the drug trade out of Venezuela, slowing
that down. And then again, I think that
will quickly turn us our attention to
the cartels with Mexico working with or
without Shine Bomb to push on that. So I
think you're going to see a lot of good
coming out of that. The other thing you
are going to see is this ongoing
friction between China and the US.
Whether it's oil in Venezuela, whether
it's oil in Iran. And I think Dan, I
have talked a little bit about this, but
I complet I I think there is going to be
real competition between the US. And the
one thing I don't love about this
morning's, you know, rally is like, oh,
we're starting because of all the
success of Chinese data centers and
Chinese AI chips. I don't think that's
positive for the US, to be honest. I
think we're in real competition.
>> That was exactly my read this morning. I
mean, we're rallying. All these US AI
companies are trading higher in the
pre-market because China's doing better
makes very little sense. I also think it
makes very little sense that we're going
to somehow stop the US drug problem by
working on the supply issue. I mean,
don't forget the reason that we have a
drug problem is because we demand to use
these drugs, right? American buyers are
the main issue here. Does proc have any,
you know, um, change in that?
>> No, but I do think we're seeing kind of
law and order. If you look at the recent
outrage over potential fraud in
Minneapolis, right, whether it's true or
not, you're starting to see kind of this
concept, I think, and you look even San
Francisco, I have not been there in the
last 6 months, but I've told it's night
and day. They've really been working on
cleaning up. And I think a lot of what
we have to do is just enforce the rules
that were in place. We for years chose
not to enforce the rules that were in
place. I think you start putting that
back, that shuts down a little bit of
the demand or at least the ability to
get that demand filled. So, I think it's
all working in conjunction,
>> right? I just I feel like the Sackler
family is still doing pretty well, you
know. Um when I think about your pros
thesis, I really think about Intel um
the most because you know, one of the
big problems we have is that all of our
chips that we need that we're reliant on
are made in a territory claimed by
China, right? Um what are we going to be
able to do about production here in the
US?
>> So, you know, normally I don't talk
about single stocks, but we made the
exception within but we made because I
think it is going to be such a key part
of this, right? I think the fact that
the US government put 10% into that is
going to encourage Trump and the
administration to try and drive business
Intel's way. And again, I think if we're
right on this proc so this is all about
resiliency, right? It's like how do we
produce things for our own security,
there's going to have to be more and
more domestic. I think there are other
US companies on the chip side that will
do more and more here. I think just
because of that investment the
government made, Intel is going to be a
big beneficiary. Look for more and more
deals to be announced. Their technology
is good. It's getting better. I think
that is going to be one of the key
growth areas. I know it was up 80 some
odd percent last year. I think it does
extremely well this year and that's
probably my favorite pick within the
data center AI because it fits so
perfectly with our production for
security as well as the AI growth story.
>> Well, how much is it going to be
government support and how much is it
going to be actual groundup success in
the business model, right? I mean, does
this sort of national selection of
champions work when it comes to success
in business?
>> I think it can. I think one the US is
just a massive consumer. So if the US
starts encouraging people, hey, we want
to buy stuff, but we would like Intel
inside, that makes a difference. I don't
know whether it's the way we should go
about it or not, but I feel that that's
the way this administration may go about
it. And separately, I think the
technology is good. So sometimes if you
just need that little nudge, maybe
that's what occurs here. And again, I
think they've been doing a lot to do
this. They are seemingly, I think,
getting better at separating their chip
design business from their chip
manufacturing. And I I think we are just
at such at this early stage of people
really thinking about pros or production
for security or resiliency that there's
a lot more going on. We're going to see
this we're going to see this through the
electricity industry whether it's
nuclear. I I just think and again this
is an administration that is well aware
that if stocks are not doing well coming
into the midterms it does not bode well.
So look for lots of pushes to get the
stock market going.
>> We we see this right now in the metals
trade. We just saw the best year for
gold and silver. You could say gold is a
precious metal. has to do with something
about the ddollarization and something
other than some of the industrial uses,
but we see it in copper, we see it in
aluminum. How much is this just the
beginning versus the end salvo that we
see in this trade?
>> I think it's at the very early stage of
this cuz one, and I admit, right, I
think if we're going to try and build
factories, if we're going to try and do
some of these things, again, we're not
going to try and produce everything
ourselves, but we're going to try and
produce more and more. Those are two to
five year plans in many cases. In the
electricity space, it could be three to
seven years. um steel and aluminum right
three to 10 years the buildout of those
factories and that facilities it's going
to put huge demand on commodities right
you are going to need commodities you're
going to need the cats you're going to
need the deers the navastars of the
world to build out those so I think
you're going to get the job growth not
from the actual end facilities right
away but from the buildout and that's
just starting
>> doesn't that speak to inflation doesn't
that speak to something that people have
basically shrugged off as a significant
risk in 2026
>> yeah I think we're going to have a
steady pace of inflation I think it's
going to be there I think the Only thing
offsetting that is going to be there is
going to be some deregulation in the US
in terms of a lot of the you know mining
and I think that will help keep a lid on
some of the commodity prices. I think
it's going to be hard on things like
copper where we don't have much. I think
oil and gas are going to remain
relatively cheap particularly oil this
year. So I think that will help offset
some of this. I I see inflation kind of
being this steady state problem and
again I think it's going to be
persistently in that 2 to 4% probably
hovering around 3%. I think tariffs
start taking a bit of their toll. I
think your last guess was spot on where
I think people forgot how much was front
run and we're only starting to see that
bite. We're only starting to see people
like, hey, we've used up a couple of
quarters of maybe we had some, you know,
things that we could play around with
and now it's like we're back to
business. We need to make our margins.
So, I think that's going to be an
ongoing state. So, I think it's going to
be hard for bond yields to do great this
year. On the other hand, I think they're
going to do okay.
>> Peter Sharer of Academy Securities is
going to be sticking with us, which is a
wonderful thing. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your blooper brief with
Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. [music] Accusations emerging
following the deadly train crash near
Peruse Machu Picchu earlier this week.
[music] A subsidiary of LVMH is blaming
a train company majority owned by global
private equity firm Carlilele Group for
the crash. In a letter to the office of
the prime minister, the company said
Carile's Inca Rail transited through an
unauthorized part of the tracks leading
to the head-on crash. Inca said that
it's cooperating with authorities and
[music] warned against jumping to
conclusions before authorities have
weighed in. Elsewhere, Aust has launched
legal action against the Trump
administration following the suspension
of its 5 billion wind farm project. The
energy supplier says that the decision
quote violates applicable law and will
call for the suspension to be lifted
until the court hands down a final
verdict. [music] This is the second time
that Austin's Revolution wind project
has been targeted by the Trump
administration. Finally, staying with
the president, Trump offering a
explanation for visible bruising on his
hands. The president telling the Wall
Street Journal that he takes a higher
dose of aspirin than his doctors
recommend. Trump explaining, quote, they
say aspirin is good for the thinning out
of the blood, [music] and I don't want
thick blood pouring through my heart. I
want nice, thin blood pouring through my
heart. That should be my brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzie. Up next,
increasing the pressure on Venezuela.
>> Not going to let anybody going through
that shouldn't be going through. You
remember they took all of our energy
rights. They took all of our oil from
not that long ago, and we want it back,
but they took it. They illegally took
it.
>> Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us next
as that whole region [music] really
heats up from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right now, we are seeing gains to start
2026 on a positive note with the same
leadership as we ended 2025. [music] We
are seeing an outperformance in NASDAQ
futures up about a percent. We're seeing
a 6/10% gain on S&P. You are seeing a
bit of a bid into the bond [music] space
building on the biggest year going back
to 2020. The 10-year yield 4.15%
a real question as we've [music] been
talking throughout the morning about
inflation and whether that will come
back to bite and crude prices on that
inflationary point not really adding
[music] to any kind of price increases
down about a half a percent despite some
earlier volatility $57.17 [music]
traded on the NAX under surveillance
this morning increasing the pressure on
Venezuela.
>> Not going to let anybody going through
that shouldn't be going through. You
remember they took all of our energy
rights. They took all of our oil from
not that long ago and we want it back.
But they took it. They illegally took
it. We had a lot of oil there. As you
know, they threw our companies out and
we want it back.
>> Here's the latest. The Trump
administration sanctioning Chinese
shipping companies and their oil tankers
in the latest strike against Venezuela's
crude exports. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now. Tyler, thank you so much
for being back with us. Is this about
drugs? Is this about regime change? Is
this about oil?
>> Yeah, Lisa, good morning. Well, it
depends who you ask in the
administration because it really seems
like all answers are pointing to all of
the above. And it's interesting to point
out that we did get a new analysis out
yesterday from our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics who say that it looks
increasingly likely that we will see an
exit from Nicholas Maduro this year.
They also point out though that the
issue with pressure campaigns
particularly from the US is that until
the intended goal is achieved, there is
really only one way forward and that is
up the escalation ladder. Now this
latest move is being viewed as a warning
sign by the administration to China
which goes to the question about oil.
They are of course the largest importer
of Venezuelan crude. data shows us that
Venezuela on average exported 750,000
barrels per day last year and nearly
half of that went to China. Now, at this
point, we've seen China come to
Venezuela's defense. But experts say
that's really for the moment going to
remain in the rhetorical camp for now,
even as Beijing raises questions about
the US's own seizure and the legality of
the seizures of these oil tankers. So,
it's something to wait and see. But of
course, our reporting has uh indicated,
Lisa, that there is a broader plan here
when it comes to squeezing that oil
lifeline for Nicholas Maduro.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
being with us as always and a real focus
on Latin America. We were just speaking
about that and we'll continue the
conversation with Peter Shear, head of
macro strategy at Academy Securities who
is still with us. Peter, we're talking
about how you are optimistic on Latin
America. How much do you see it though
as ground zero for the international
disputes whether it's the US versus
Russia, whether it's the US versus
China? I mean, how much is this the new
ground zero?
>> Yeah, I think it really is. And I think
three things kind of we've been talking
about really resonate with this
particular story. One is it's about law
and order, right? Enforcing sanctions
that have been on the books for a long
time. We chose not to, you know, enforce
those sanctions. You start putting that
out. I think the other thing people are
missing and it's starting to come
through loud and clear is whether it's
in Russian, Ukraine, whether it's in
Venezuela, to the extent there are peace
deals, Trump is going to do everything
in his power to get US companies a big
advantage in the rebuilding. So look for
that to play a big part of the US growth
story is whether it's peace in Russia,
Ukraine, anything in Venezuela, US
companies do phenomenally well. And then
finally, it's just going to be friction
everywhere with China, right? China was
able over the last two decades to kind
of set their tentacles into all these
countries across the globe. They used
their belt and road initiative very
effectively and now they're we're going
to be pushing them out. It'll be really
interesting to see what China has to say
on some of this and weirdly and China's
been incredibly quiet on Russia. You
know, all these pictures over the past
few years, Xi and Putin and Best Buddies
that are going to work together. He's
been very quiet. So, I want to see where
all this plays out. I think you when
you're looking at this, whether it's
from a shipping perspective where you
want to build your new plants, you have
to be focused on Central and South
America, if you're an American company
and a little bit reluctant to be too
invested in Southeast Asia right now as
the US turns its attention, you know, in
kind of the Monroe document doctrine,
too.
>> Yeah, I was thinking that as well. It's
pretty interesting that President Trump
has put his own spin on the Monroe
Doctrine. Um, when I look at China, and
I could be wrong here, um, because I'm
so focused on the auto industry, I see
the rare earth minerals as their biggest
advantage over us. They have the mining
and refining capabilities that we just
don't have. Right? MP Materials is a
very small company. Um, how do we turn
that around? And am I right that it's so
important?
>> Yeah, I think it's very important. One,
I'm much more focused. I think when we
talk to the administration, they're much
more focused on the refining and
processing, right? China controls about
60% of the extraction of the rarest and
critical minerals. So there are there is
the ability to buy it on the open
market. It is going to have to come down
to the refining and processing of this
one. I think it's going to take
deregulation. So we're aware that some
states are actually going to be trying
to be very favorable to encourage some
of these businesses to grow, right?
Because it's been something we avoided.
It's going to take time. It's going to
take deregulation. It might take some
government investment. Those are the
directions headed. I think we need a
start. And when I look at this battle
between the US and China, I feel that
China's sitting there trying to say, "We
want to catch up on chips, but our lever
of power is these process and refined,
you know, rarest and critical. How do we
weigh on that?" And they're balancing,
can they catch up on chips? And what I'm
mostly afraid of is that we go through
these negotiations, and as far as I can
tell, there's still no final deal. Both
countries are like, "Hey, when we're
back two years, we're going to be in
better position." For us to be in better
position two years, we need rarers and
critical minerals processing refining
done here. For China to be better, they
need to catch up on AI. a little bit
worried China might beat us, but I think
that's the game that's being played. I
see a sense of urgency that's occurring
with this. I see that government
investing and again, I think you start
talking to private equity companies,
right? They're now scouring, you know,
through companies who's got mining
rights that have been ignored, who has
maybe some interesting patents or
technology that we weren't using when we
couldn't produce lithium dioxide
cheaper. So, I I think this is all just
starting. People are going to cover it.
And what's to me is really exciting is
yes, the US government kind of jumpst
started this process. It's US capitalism
that's going to drive it. US capital is
going to see, hey, there's
opportunities. We can make money on this
kind of proc concept, building these
things out in competition with China.
That's going to flow through and I think
you're going to see corporations adopt
that behavior as well.
>> But the deregulation part is really key
here, right? And that's been uh a
problem not only for rare earth uh
minerals refining, but also for power
generation. I mean, try to run a power
line um from your plant to the end user
and good luck. It's going to take like
14 years to get those licenses. How uh
effective can the Trump administration
be in this deregulation?
>> You know, I think reasonably effective.
I think one, you're going to find some
states that are very pro business that
they want these things. They want to see
the growth in their state. They want to
see the tax revenue. They want to see
the job. So, I think you're going to see
some, you know, red states probably in
the south do very well that they are
going to accept regul deregulation. They
want they'll embrace it. Even California
in some parts of it saying, "Hey, we
need some of these things." That
California is exploring, right? I think
there's this realization that we went
too far on regulation. Having said that,
I think some states are going to fight
this. It's going to become an election
issue. You know, there's going to be
that certain crowd on all of these
things, unfortunately, where if Trump
says something, one-third says that's
the greatest thing ever. One-third says
that's the worst idea ever, and we lose
the dialogue. So, I think we need the
dialogue. We need this. But I am
encouraged. What we're hearing is some
states really going to be aggressive
about this, that will let it go. And I
think even with the data center and AI,
right, there's going to be a bit of a
realization that to me things that don't
require low latency. So, some of the
technology can require higher latency.
It's going to move to the states that
are most conducive to allowing
electricity production. It may move even
closer to the source. I see a world
where you see some of this look a little
bit like oil rigs. You get shipped to
your data center, you work there for two
or three weeks, you get shipped back.
Um, so we're going to change where these
data centers go, especially for the
things that aren't low latency.
>> Are you worried about regulation on AI?
You mentioned China a couple times
already this morning and the potential
um that it could beat us on AI.
Regulation has to be a key part of that
too and a lot of people are going to
start pushing for it
>> and I think we've done a pretty good job
in terms of that. I think you know
Europe's a mess right Europe has so much
regulation all the privacy issues
they're going to get nowhere on AI plus
they don't produce any electricity so
not worried about Europe much more
worried about China also India I think
has a real potential to become a
burgeoning player in this space right
Nvidia's moved you know equipment there
right it is a really interesting play I
think we've got to be very careful on
the regulation and I agree that there
has to be regulation because you see
some crazy stuff as I think you guys are
reporting over the weekend um having
said that I think we've We got to be
careful not to limit ourselves too much.
The other wild card to me is the Middle
East, right? I think in many ways it's
great that we're selling chips to the
Middle East. The other hand, I'm not
sure we really want them to become a
data center or AI capital of the world.
>> You're talking about becoming more
resilient. How do you know what risks to
become more most resilient against? What
are sort of on your uh range of risks
that companies should be watching out
for?
>> And you know to some extent you just go
back to first principles. What do we
need right? And let's say if China shuts
us off from rarer and critical minerals,
how quickly does half our manufacturing
or finished products very quickly,
right? Even if they shut off our Chinese
factories or Indian factories from
getting those. So okay, boom, let's fix
that. Let's make some level of these so
that we have months and months of supply
without China. I think you look at the
data center AI with chips, right? If
China was to do something to disrupt
even shipping out of Taiwan right now,
very innocuous, very grayzone type
things that they could do with their
maritime militia. What happens to our
industry? Bad. So, we need ships. So, I
think that's kind of you look at it.
It's kind of, you know, and I go back to
even sustainability, right? I I think
one of the things maybe that was state,
you look at what humans need, right? We
need air. You don't live without air
very long. Then you need water. You
don't live without water. Food. You can
actually live a decent amount of time
without food relative. And then with
higher [laughter] and higher, you know,
uh, temperatures and stuff, you can live
a long time. So, I think when we're
looking at this, I'm kind of looking at
the industries. What do we need to be
sustainable and resilient? Let's pretend
that China wants to be bad. What would
China do to try and hurt us? Let's make
sure they can't. It's deterrence on an
economic side. So, in a military side,
right, you have the big missiles to make
sure that they don't want to attack you.
On the economic side, you do the same
thing. You make sure that you're
prepared for them.
>> Peter Shear, wonderful to see you. And
now I'm looking at ChachiBT. Go bag.
What should be in my go bag? Peter Sheer
of Academy Securities. Always great to
see you. Coming up in the next half
hour, Mark Chandler of Banickburn as the
dollar aims for a positive start to
2026. Plus, Lizzie Burton is back with
your morning movers. Tech very much in
focus. This is Bloomberg
[music]
trying to end up in a better place at
the end of the first trading day of 2026
than where we left off. We are seeing
gains in futures across the board led by
big tech up almost a percent on the
NASDAQ futures. S&P futures up about
6/10en of a percent. You are seeing a
rally into the 10-year. You're seeing
right now 4.15%
down about a basis point after earlier
seeing a pretty significant sell-off. So
volatility in this space following the
[music] best year for the globe global
aggregate bond index going back to 2020.
And silver still on a tear up 3.6%.
[music] Last week was wild. I say last
week, but I'm saying the three past days
of trading, Matt, it seems like silver
very much in focus in metals volatility.
[music]
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, um, the runup
that silver had last year was historic.
You know, I can't can't remember exactly
where we closed at New Year's Eve. 148%.
>> Okay. 148% is amazing. And it's twice
what we saw um with gold. I think it's
even more interesting because there's so
many more industrial uses for silver
than there are for gold, right? Um, so
it's obviously not just about jewelry,
but um, uh, it's it's really one of the
defining stories of 2025.
>> Are people buying silver bars now in
addition to their gold bars at Costco?
Two hours away from the cash open. Here
are your morning movers with [music]
Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hey Lisa, I want to start with the Mag 7
because it looks like traders are still
in buying mode this first day of the
year. We've got Nvidia up 1.6%
right now. source. We saw 25% gains for
the Mag 7 as a whole across the course
of 2025 and so far it looks like [music]
it's continuing. Let's flip over though
to aluminum because that, as you say, is
up past $3,000 a ton for the first time
in over 3 years. You've got supply
factors here when it comes to China and
Europe, but also long-term demand bets
when it comes to sectors like
construction and renewables. So, the
[music] likes of Alcoa this morning up
over 2% riding that wave. Let's go back
to the MAG 7 though and focus in on
Tesla because of course we're expecting
their Q4 production and deliveries
report out later today. Analysts [music]
expecting a drop in global vehicle
deliveries of 11%. But don't forget,
earlier in the week, Tesla took the
unusual [music] step of pre-releasing
its own analyst estimates average, and
that was even more pessimistic, a 15%
drop. So that disparity perhaps
explaining why you're seeing Tesla up
1.4% in the pre-market. [music]
Lisa, back to you. Thank you so much,
Lizzy. On our radar this morning,
President Trump saying the US will
intervene if Iran starts killing
peaceful protesters. Trump saying on
social media, "The US is quote locked
and loaded and ready to go." Widespread
protests erupting in Iran over economic
hardships and a falling currency.
Meanwhile, President Trump delaying
tariff increases on upholstered
furniture and kitchen cabinets as voters
voiced more concerns over affordability.
The US also reducing controversial
anti-dumping tariffs on some Italian
pasta brands. wasn't on my bingo card,
but the idea of reducing tariffs has
been something that we have seen in a
number of different venues. Uh Matt, and
this is even before any kind of AIPA
case.
>> Yeah. Because of the um last elections
that we had in November and the wins for
Democrats in places like New Jersey and
Virginia on the affordability campaign.
Um this administration has pulled back a
bit on some of its tariffs. obviously um
playing to do better in 2026, right? Um
when voters go to the polls, again, it
makes perfect sense, but it's also in a
sense admitting that tariffs do to some
extent drive inflation, which is one of
the things that they were um adamant
about not being the case before the last
election.
>> Yeah. And inflation is going to be very
much in focus, especially considering
the fact that people do think that
inflation is in check enough for the
Federal Reserve to cut rates. It seems
like tariffs hasn't been something that
is considered inflationary so far and
maybe will continue to not be as much if
you do see a backing away from some of
these tariff things even before the AIPA
decision which is expected in the next
couple of weeks.
>> Right. I think you know one of the other
uh important points is that wages have
kept up with inflation at least if you
look at a longer term average. Chorson
of Apollo was putting something out
about that earlier this week and I think
that's interesting because you can deal
with a 3% inflation if you're getting
four or 5% more in your paycheck, right?
Um but the question is how much longer
does that stay the case? And uh how much
longer does the Fed is the Fed willing
to deal with a target or or or or an
inflation number that's 50% higher than
its target?
>> Next Friday, we do get non-farm payrolls
for the month of December. Watch this
space. Meanwhile, New York City has a
new mayor. 34year-old Democratic
socialist Zoron Mandani was sworn in
outside city hall yesterday. Mdani
promising in his speech to deliver an
agenda of quote safety, affordability,
and abundance. And Matt, you're talking
about the midterm elections. How much is
Zoran Mani the mainstream now and
frankly the face of the Democratic party
or is he the outlier in terms of the
Democratic Socialist while a more sort
of centrist party takes over?
>> Yeah, I mean he had all the outliers
with him at city hall, right? He had AOC
there. You had Bernie Sanders there and
I think there was a lot of bark, but I'm
not sure how much bite there's going to
be. Universal uh health care, free child
care. These are very expensive things
that the New York City U government
alone can't pay for. They need New York
State to help and so far it doesn't look
like Kathy Hokll is going to step in.
>> Yeah, it's a great question and we're
going to all be watching that unfold.
Turning back to markets, traders betting
on more US dollar weakness after the
greenback ended last year with its
sharpest drop since 2017. Mark Chandler
of Benickburn Global writing, "The
dollar is still terribly overvalued and
the multi-year decline is set to
continue." Mark joins us now. Mark,
thank you so much for being with us.
Happy New Year. What do you mean that
the multi-year decline is set to
continue? Why do you see this as a long
continuum rather than a particular year
of 2025?
Happy new year, [clears throat] Lisa and
Matt. Uh, so yeah, so I I think that,
you know, when I look at a chart, I
think the dollar index itself, this
basket that the dollar trades against,
peaked in 2022.
And so I think that what we saw last
year was sort of that the dollar's
decline has begun. And it's really what
we're talking about is just a different
pace of it. And so last year, I think
that we saw the dollar decline really
was a first half story as the market
adjusted to the new Trump term and the
tariffs. But I think as as Matt had
talked about with these uh upholstery
and vanity uh tariff relief that that
the the bark was worse in the bite uh
that you know since the liberation day
we have seen the US effective average
tariff really come down by almost half
and we haven't seen many other countries
retaliate. For me, the key driver of the
dollar is going to be the Fed policy.
And the market's looking for at least
one cut, maybe maybe it's two cuts uh
largely discounted. And I think that we
we will see two to three cuts next year
by the Federal Reserve as the economy
does slow.
>> So you think that there's going to be
about a 9% decline in 2026, which is
commensurate to what we saw in 2025.
How much is this driven by one
particular cross or is it broad-based?
>> I think it'll be broad-based. I mean, of
course, the yen is lagging a bit, which
is a bit of a surprise given that the
central bank has been hiking rates. I
think that since the Bank of Japan hiked
rates, the threat of intervention
becomes more potent. I think that
intervention before they hiked rates
would have probably faced criticism from
the US.
>> I'm interested, Mark, uh, and by the
way, happy new year to you as well.
Great to see you. I'm interested in uh
your comment on the e economy and your
expectation for growth to slow,
especially as we have um this one big
beautiful bill kicking in. Um aren't we
going to see corporate tax cuts, aren't
we going to see, you know, uh I guess
retail tax cuts help to spur more
spending and investment?
>> I think you're right, Matt, that at
least in the first quarter of the year,
we're going to get those corporate tax
cuts. will get large refunds as well for
US households and that could help boy
the economy in the first part of the
year but the the real weakness is likely
to come uh in the second half of the
year and I think that what we'll see as
well is unemployment rates tick up you
know the household sector it's really I
really buy into this K-shaped uh state
of the economy where the where the
growth is concentrated consumption is
concentrated most households have debt
stress levels uh measuring rising
And so I think that I think that this
sort of bifurcated economy is ultimately
going to be a drag. And so that's why I
really think that we'll see the Federal
Reserve have to cut interest rates
further. How do you think about the
labor pool um when looking at
unemployment, Mark? Because we had
obviously an explosion of immigration
under President Biden that's now dropped
back to zero and demographics are going
the wrong way. So, it's not like we're
getting really many new workers as
corporate profits continue to grow by
double-digit percentages.
>> I really accept Powell's description of
what's going on. We've got a a low
hiring and low firing uh type of labor
market situation. But, you know, when
you know, we did have distorted data
whether it was the uh uh healthc care
spending uh that helped lift consumption
in Q3 GDP. uh but I I or whether we see
the concentration of consumption into
the say top 20% of the income profile.
So yeah, I'm concerned about these
things but in general I think that the
labor market is just grinding lower and
despite the efforts to help protect the
US manufacturing sector and continue to
shed manufacturing jobs.
>> What do you think about wages keeping up
with inflation? I I continue to
reference Torres Sllock's chart, but uh
he has a six-year average there, and it
doesn't feel to me like wages really
have kept up with inflation, certainly
not through the Biden administration.
How does it how does it look to you when
you when you look at the data?
>> Yeah. So, I think that, you know, it's
funny. Everybody talks about CPI. Uh
countries talk about CPI. Many of them
target 2%. But we all measure it
differently. And I know my household uh
cost of living has gone up by more than
2% this year, more than 3%. Uh I I think
about the uh the groceries uh how much
the dollar buys of groceries these days.
And so I do think that American
households are being squeezed and I
think that debt uh credit levels have
increased to help make ends meet.
>> I'm just wondering, Mark, to close up uh
the conversation, we're talking about
the currency and we're talking about
rate differentials and we're talking
about the traditional things. Is there
something new happening? And I asked
this after gold and silver just had
their best year since 1979. Is there a
global shift away from fiat currencies
toward real assets in a new kind of way
than we've seen in the past?
>> Might be Lisa. I think that you're right
that you know we've seen not only gold
and silver but a lot of the industrial
metals as well. And I think partly this
is what's going on as a weaponization. I
think this is, you know, January 1st,
uh, China put on silver controls, silver
export restrictions. And in the US, we
we moved silver, uh, from just like a
normal metal to a critical or strategic
metal. And so, I do think that there's a
a change taking place. In my work, I
think that the US has recognized, I
think in Trump's own idiosyncratic way,
he's recognizing and is phrased G2,
meaning the US and China, that the US is
no longer this hegemonic unchecked power
in the world, and that China uh China is
a real demand because it's a factory of
the world. You know, China is making
about 30% of the world's manufactured
goods. In 1950, the US accounted for
about 60% of the manufactured goods.
Within about a decade of that, the US
have really become a trade deficit
country, a chronic trade deficit
country. And so I think that the
tectonic plates are shifting. I'm not
convinced though that gold or silver are
going to really replace the dollar. I
think part of it is people like myself
who see an uptrend in gold and silver
and want to participate in it, leaving
aside the geopolitics
and the and the shifting tectanic
plates.
>> Mark Chandler of Benner, wonderful to
see you. Thank you so much for being
with us on this first trading day of the
new year. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Lizzie [music] Burton. Lizzy, hi
Lisa. Gold and silver are rallying in
the new year, building on their best
annual performances since 1979.
Goldman Sachs saying its base case is
for gold to rally to $4,900
this year with risks to [music] the
upside. and aluminum touched $3,000 a
ton for the first time in more than
three years due to a tightening supply
outlook [music] and bets on long-term
demand. Elsewhere, rising health care
costs are a pressing issue for millions
of Americans. [music] As of New Year's
Day, enhanced tax credits that cut
premium costs for the vast majority of
people with Affordable Care Act plans
[music] have expired. An analysis from
the Urban Institute and Commonwealth
Fund projects projects 4.8 8 million
Americans will drop their coverage
[music] without the subsidies. And
finally, in sports, the college football
quarterfinals took center stage over the
holiday in a New Year's Eve stunner
Miami shocked the defending champs Ohio
[music] State 24-4.
Meanwhile, top-seated Indiana remained
perfect, crushing Alabama 38-3 in the
Rose Bowl. Elsewhere, Oregon shut out
Texas Tech 23 to nothing and Ole Miss
out outlasted Georgia in a 39-34
thriller. And that should be Mo Brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Uh, Lizzie, really
appreciate that. Did you [music] watch
that with Olay? [laughter]
>> Well, it's fair. I mean, she's in
London. I just know it's all messy
anyway. Uh, I totally get that. Did you
watch that? Were you engaged?
>> I unfortunately I did watch the Ohio
State loss and it was it was painful.
[music] It really hurt. close to your
heart.
>> And I've seen bad Ohio State losses to M
uh to Miami in the past. Um and it still
didn't make it any better. It was tough.
>> Well, it's a new year, so maybe it's a
new future uh for Ohio State. Up next,
new year, new data.
>> Reading these data is much harder at the
turn of the year than say the middle of
the year. The tenor of the data in in
general is is pretty pretty good. We
still need labor market to pick up, but
but the the ingredients are there. Dana
Peterson of the Conference Board joining
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Happy new year. It is a new year with a
new tone in markets at least in the last
uh four days of [music] 20125. You do
see a lift to equity markets across the
board. NASDAQ leading the charge up 1%
followed by Russell 2000 futures up
7/10en of a percent. S&P up 610 of a
percent. Are we going to see that
broadening out this year? The big
question for so [music] many different
stock investors. A lot of it has to do
with what's happening here at twos,
tens, and 30s. Whether we get that bid
into bonds continuing to lift this idea
that smaller companies and more
leveraged companies continue to
outperform. We do see that bid continue.
30-year yields down [music] one basis
point, 10-year yields down two basis
points to 4.15%.
So much will hinge on what the path of
the Fed looks like. And so much of that
[music] will rely on some of the
information that we get later next week.
under surveillance this morning. New
[music] year, new data.
>> Reading these data is much harder at the
turn of the year than say the middle of
the year. What we're looking for are
signs of more stability in the labor
market. Signs that those the hiring
rates start to pick off a pickup off
their very low levels. The tenor of the
data in in general is is pretty pretty
good. I mean, solid there. Like I said,
we still need labor market to pick up,
but but the the ingredients are there.
Here's the latest. US data blind spots
weighing on economic forecasts in the
new year. Data Peterson of the
Conference Board writing 2025 is ending
on a confusing note for markets,
economists, and central bankers alike.
Still, we should not completely ignore
the data. Dana joins us now. Happy New
Year. Thank you so much for being with
us. Dana, let's start with the data that
we have gotten. Why is it so noisy? How
should people look at it considering
that people do view it as somewhat noisy
but also they can't ignore it?
>> Exactly. You can't ignore these data. We
did have [clears throat] data for the
third quarter. Um certainly the GDP came
in a lot stronger than expected. Um and
certainly consumption was a lot stronger
even though we did have data. It shows
that the the Fed I mean the Federal
Reserve sorry it shows that the Federal
government probably had more data um in
between uh releases and certainly um
after the shutdown. But I think the key
thing is that inventories and trade were
very confusing and indeed when you add
up the inventories well when you add up
the imports plus the consumption the
inventories numbers just don't make
sense. So we really need to get data
next week on inventories as well as
international trade business sentiment
uh and also employment. I think we
really need to see more data to get a
handle on what happened in the third
quarter and also what happened in the
fourth quarter.
>> Dana, we are going to get uh some data
come next week that is going to be
important including the non-farm
payrolls as well as some of the
manufacturing aspects that you're
talking about. Nonetheless, we have a
host of other information out there that
people keep pointing to, whether it's
ADP, whether it's earnings, whether it's
the rhetoric coming out of a lot of
companies or whether it's retail sales.
I mean, is there some sort of conclusion
that you can take even amid the noise?
>> Well, I think you know, certainly the
stock market does not reflect the real
economy. So, we can't look to that. And
also people who most people don't own
stocks, so they're not really benefiting
from that. Uh we do have lots of
sentiment data. Of course, our consumer
sentiment data um has shown that
consumers are less sanguine about the
current conditions as well as having
some concerns about the future. Um you
know, retail sales, all we have really
is the end of the third quarter and they
were weaker. So I think that we just
need more information and you can't look
at these things and try to estimate what
the government data is going to tell us.
I'm looking at the uh conference board
consumer confidence um index and it
hasn't been this low since the pandemic.
So what does that tell us about um you
know inflation growth um spending?
>> Well, I think the inflation bit has yet
to hit us. Um remember the tariffs that
were implemented were delayed twice and
also they were raised and lowered
several times. So many businesses are
still waiting to see if there's any
certainty with respect to tariffs. Yes,
we've had a number of deals um uh
established, but there's still a lot
that's unknown. And so with businesses
uncertain, it doesn't mean that it just
means that we're not going to see much
hiring. We're not seeing layoffs, which
is good. Most people still are working,
but those who do get laid off are
finding it very difficult to find jobs.
And even though most consumers are
working and they actually are spending,
the type of spending that they're
engaged with is very different. They're
buying things that they need and when it
comes to especially with goods and
services. And when it does it does come
to things that are entertaining, they're
buying cheap things, right? Cheap
thrills like streaming instead of going
to the movies and paying, you know, over
$100 for a family of four. And so I
think we need to really get beyond the
first quarter of this year to really see
what's happening because I think that's
when we're going to see the bigger
effects of tariffs on inflation and
consumers really pull back.
>> Dana, I've been trying to pin down how
workers wages have kept up with
inflation. As I've been saying, you
know, Torston Sllock put out a six-year
average showing that wages are doing
better than inflation. But Mark Chandler
um whom we just spoke with from
Bandenbrook says in his household that
certainly isn't the case and he doesn't
he doesn't think um that that it looks
like a great picture for for consumers.
How do you see it?
Well, yes. Uh, wage growth and
compensation have been slowing from the
peaks that we saw during the the the
pandemic, certainly the later portion of
the pandemic when we were trying to get
everybody back into the labor market.
And you need to entice them and also
keep workers with compensation. But
still, I mean, I I would say that wages
are still growing at a pace that's above
where we were between the great
financial crisis and the pandemic. And
but I would look at the last GDP data
where we saw real disposable income grow
at 0.0 percentage points annualized in
the third quarter. That's not a good
sign. And so we definitely do see um
slowing in wages and for some people it
may be faster than others.
>> Dana Peterson of the Conference Board,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning on the first trading day of the
new year. Coming up next week, we get
ISM manufacturing as well as services
which is going to be really interesting.
We get Jolts data, some of the jobs data
that we did not get last month. We also
get ISM services jobless claims. And
then of course the big one on December,
we get the December payrolls print. How
much is this really Matt going to set up
the tenor for 2026 after a lot of
confusion around the data that we've
gotten? Uh well, yeah, I I I hope that
the data that we get now is less and
less messy as we get into 2026 because
what we've seen over the past couple of
months due to the government shutdown
has been really difficult to interpret.
Um I doubt that that's what we get with
the December non-farm payrolls because
you've got to think about the holiday,
right? And it's just not the kind of
clean look at at labor that economists
really want to see.
>> Yeah. And there's this sense that we
don't really understand the numbers once
they do come out. What is the break even
rate uh for the US labor market in terms
of job creation given the fact that
there is a uh shrinking or at least
stagnant population of new workers
coming in? The expectation right now uh
that people are expecting is 55,000 jobs
created in the month of December. That
would be down from 64,000 in the prior
month. Although people are expecting a
revision downward in terms of the
December jobs growth. Actually expecting
a contraction in the month of December.
We will get that data coming up next
Friday on January 9th. Coming up,
Kathern Rooney of Vera of Stoneex Group,
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo ahead of CES, R.J.
Gallow of Federated Investment
Management, [music] and Bloomberg's
Craig Trudeell from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Happy new year.
[music]
>> [music]
>> that big story is really going to
continue to be AI and tech.
>> I think you stay in a mag 7.
>> It's still so early in this game that
it's very hard to declare where the
ultimate winners are going to be. the
same sectors that have been strong for a
couple years before are going to
continue to be strong.
>> It doesn't take much disruption to have
quite a few domino effects [music] that
are going to impact the market in a more
holistic way.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern. Good morning. Welcome back to
Bloomberg Surveillance. Kicking off 2026
with a bang as futures build on three
straight years of double-digit gains.
Wall Street feeling good about the year
ahead with widespread optimism about a
lengthening in the bull market and some
real gut checks on deck from the Supreme
Court decisions to next week's jobs
report as a key indicator ahead of the
Fed's rate decision later this month.
Matt Miller alongside [music] me and
there really is this feeling that right
now we're a little bit in the dark at
the end of 2025 and that we should get
some light in the next couple of trading
days.
>> Yeah, hope hoping to get um some more
data that's less noisy. uh hoping to get
a better picture of the labor market
especially. Um that's what people I
think are most focused on rather than
inflation which is interesting. [music]
>> Yeah, right now we are seeing the
optimism in the AI trade continue. Right
now you NASDAQ futures up almost 1%
ahead of the open. You are seeing a bit
less of a decline less of a gain in S&P
futures up 610 of a percent. Russell
2000 doing a bit better at 7/10en of a
percent. a bid into bonds even though
earlier you did see some volatility
[music]
uh pretty much across the board down
about a basis point. Uh still watching
though the steepening in the yield
curve. A real question [music] as the
Fed is expected to cut rates at least
twice this year. And then on the
inflation side of things, metals across
the board had a [music] banner year in
2025. They are continuing that today.
Gold, silver, aluminum, copper, all of
them up. Silver up three and a quarter%
after
148% gain in 2025. [music]
Coming up this hour, Katherine Rooney
Vera of StoneX Group as stocks edge
higher on the first trading day of the
new year. RJ Gallow of Federated with US
Treasuries extending gains after their
best year since 2020. And Bloomberg's
Craig Trudeell previewing Tesla's latest
sales numbers. We begin this hour with
stocks rising to kick off 2026 in what
is expected to be yet another banner
year for markets. Bloomberg News
surveyed 21 strategists. None of them
are expecting the S&P 500 to decline
this year. The most bullish forecast
coming from Oppenheimer, calling for the
index to hit 8,000. Bloomberg's
Alexandra Seova reporting an optimistic
consensus has taken hold. The US stock
market will rally in 2026 for a fourth
straight year, marking the longest
winning streak in nearly two decades.
That would bring us back to the late
1990s. Alexandra, I'm so pleased to say,
joins us now. Alexandra, wonderful
story, wonderful reporting.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Is this something that's worrying and I
don't mean to be negative Nelly, but the
idea that everyone in the world's
optimistic and that no one is expecting
declines. It seems to be because when
you think about this year, there should
be a wide range of potential outcomes
for markets. When you consider where
valuations are and all of the risks, we
are uncertain about whether companies
can monetize their heavy AI investments.
We have a Fed in transition,
geopolitical fractures. And yet, when
you look at Wall Street's outlook for US
equities, it's almost as though nothing
can go wrong. Of the 21 sellside
strategists that we track from the big
shops like JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs,
no one is predicting declines in the S&P
500 index. In fact, on average, they're
predicting another 10% gain. And not
only are they unanimously bullish, those
forecasts are also clustered. the lowest
at 7,000 from Stifl and the highest uh
from Oenheimer at 8100 represents a 16%
gap which is the lowest since 2020 2017
rather. So when you're thinking about
next year perhaps the biggest risk is
complacency because when you move in
this lock step optimism it won't take
some exogenous shock or a recession to
disappoint markets but something as
small as an earnings miss. Well, there's
also uh been a confusion around whether
the economy can continue to lag behind
some of the enthusiasm that we've seen
when it comes to equity markets. Is that
something that's expected to continue as
well with maybe a sluggish US growth
backdrop at the same time as another 10%
year of gains?
>> Yeah, it seems like Wall Street
strategists are acknowledging those
risks. However, they actually see uh a
reaceleration in the economy. They're
pointing to uh the Feds easing. are
pointing to tax cuts giving the economy
a boost. Some have pointed to uh the
world cut being hosted in the US and
that is supposed to actually lift some
of the lagging segments of the economy
and help broaden out this rally. When
you look at earnings growth also for the
S&P 493 they're finally supposed to
catch up next year and the first quarter
that group is supposed to post earnings
growth of 11% the MAG 7 about 15%. So
that gap also narrowing.
>> A wonderful piece uh really
comprehensive. Alexander Samova of
Bloomberg really great work. Thank you
so much as always and Matt, this to me
is really one of the key questions. Do
you get that broadening out that
everyone has been expecting?
>> Absolutely. I was listening very closely
when she gave those percentages because
that's what I think about. That's what I
ask our guests about um most often. So,
we're not quite there yet where the 493
are overtaking um the MAG 7, but we're
getting closer and we're getting into
double digit territory, which I think is
key for a lot of people that have been
betting on this broadening out thus far,
>> especially people who are betting that
this is 1996 and not 1999 or 2000.
Katherine V Runa Vier of StoneX Group
writing 2026 will be defined by
continued early easing, slowing but
positive growth and a window for
tactical real yield relief which is
constructive for duration and equities
in the first half of the year. Katherine
joins us now for more. Katherine, great
to see you. Happy New Year. Katherine,
how much are you looking forward to that
broadening out that we were just talking
about?
I think the first half we're probably
going to continue to see upside in the
S&P and a continuation of AI
specifically leading the pack. I think
in the second half that's where I think
we're going to get a divergence in
probabilities and you know consensus is
is is packed around the 7500. I'm there
too. But the truth is is that um in the
second half things can change
meaningfully and what I'm looking at for
um you know between the next 6 to 8
months is an improvement in real yields
and that I think Lisa is what can take
the S&P higher. I think uh you know
rates are more important at this point
than any earnings miss. If if we get an
upside inflation surprise in the second
half we could see a meaningful decline
in the S&P. So, um it's interesting.
We've been watching the Fed cut rates by
175 basis points since September of
2024. And at the same time, um the
10-year yield has gone up to well, we
almost hit 420 again this morning. How
much further do you think that goes? Or
does Fed cutting begin to bring down um
10-year Treasury yields with it? Yeah, I
don't think it's one data point or one
yield tick that changes equity behavior,
but I think it's the spread and the
source of the rate move. So, if it's,
you know, long rates rise quickly
because real yields are are moving due
to repricing term premium or inflation
risks research, then equities react
immediately to the downside, I think
that's different from rates rising
because growth is improving. So, if you
get a fast move driven by inflation or
supply stress, I think um then you'll
get a compression of multiples. That's
why I'm focusing so much on rate
dynamics rather than anything else like
headline growth numbers or earnings. I
think the transmission from rates to
equities is much faster than earnings.
So I think the Fed does cut an
additional 50 basis points probably in
the first half maybe even 75 if that
bleeds into a reaceleration in
inflation. Then we get a Fed on hold or
even god forbid a hiking by the end of
this year. So what I'm looking in terms
Matt of the data that really matters is
labor market. how much that pumps up uh
service sector inflation in the second
half. But like I said, Lisa started,
this is not the 1990s, so we shouldn't
expect AI to bring inflation down.
Inflation is here to stay. It's sticky.
I think that um that supply is very
productive and in AI, but the fact is is
that uh earnings are not quite there and
productivity is not in full in full
force. So AI will not diminish inflation
completely. But the bottom line is in
terms of um what happens in 2026, do you
think the real risks lie in the second
half? So we're, you know, still six
months away from that, but we do start
to get more and more data coming out as
Lisa's been saying um this week, next
week. Um how key is, for example, the
December jobs report for you?
>> Yeah, I think it's all important. And I
mean, if you see um a more meaningful
deceleration, um then we're going to see
additional Fed cuts. If, as I'm saying
in the second half, we get um more uh
labor market tightening and we get a
resurgence of inflation because of that,
then I think that breaks my call. So, I
am bullish. But if we get a 10-year
Treasury that approaches 5% and credit
spreads start to widen material in that
back half because of a resurgence of
inflation, Matt, I think with the equity
runway ends. And that's the point. the
rates compete directly with equities.
So, you know, if borrowing costs rise
sharply, financial conditions tighten
fast. I think that's where um that's
where the exact yield level matters.
It's a regime change that signals and I
think that the equities can move uh very
quickly as a result.
>> And Katherine, you were saying that that
is the regime change when the 10-year
yield approaches that 5% level, not
necessarily the tick, but that regime
change kind of competitive edge. How
much does the political landscape factor
into this? The fact that the midterm
elections are coming up and some of the
potential incentives that may emerge
heading into that.
>> Well, I think Lisa, one of the most
underre underappreciated risks this year
is term premium and treasury supply. So
if we get this additional blowout of
fiscal profleacy which is I think one of
the main drivers of why we haven't
entered a recession and probably will
continue to be the case um then I think
the long end does not need stronger
growth to sell off and that's because of
this fiscal prof per profleacy. So we've
seen it on both sides of the aisle. If,
as history um dictates, the midterms do
go against the incumbent party, then I
probably think we continue to see fiscal
dominance re and we could see pressure
on the back end, persistent deficits,
heavier issuance, uncertainty around
policy um credibility could all risk the
market lease. I think all of that would
push term premium higher and that's
additional risk at the back end of this
year in my view um because it matters. I
mean a rise in term premium can
overwhelm policy easing and reset
valuations very quickly.
>> What are you looking for in terms of
market activity to signify that maybe
people are looking elsewhere for
diversification away from the treasury
market?
>> Well, I can tell you as a as a global
economist while going around the world
that everyone's looking at international
uh exposure. So moving away from the US
which looks saturated and and highly
valued and into emerging markets. So
outside of China, there's a lot of
interest in Asia and in Latin America
spec in Latin America specifically. And
I concur with that, Lisa, because I
think the US dollar continues to move
lower favoring emerging markets. There's
juice there. These are countries that
have curbed inflation largely and a
result are bringing down uh interest
rates meaningfully. you can get a lot of
juice there and I think fixed income
especially investors are looking
internationally and more more so in a
riskon environment in the high beta
emerging market space.
>> Katherine Rooney Vera of StoneX Group,
thank you so much for being with us and
happy new year. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Lizzie Burton. Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. We begin with tragedy in
Switzerland. Officials saying that
around 40 people have died in a fire at
a ski resort bar where partygoers were
celebrating the new year. They estimate
that more than a hundred others have
been injured after flames ripped through
the bar at a popular alpine resort
Montana. Eyewitnesses said that a
sparkler in a bottle ignited the
ceiling. Elsewhere, President Trump
pledged in a late night social media
post that the US will come to the rescue
of Iranian protesters if they're
attacked by Islamic Republic
authorities. The post comes after
protests erupted this week in Thran
after the currency slumped to a record
low. Demonstrations have since spread to
other parts of the country, setting off
clashes between civilians and security
forces. And President Trump says he's in
perfect health. In a post on Truth
Social, the president said that he had
had a perfect cognitive [music] exam and
the test should be a mandatory one for
anyone running for president or vice
president. [music]
Trump's post comes after he said in a
recent interview that he had undergone a
CT scan in his October exam, not an MRI.
And that should be more brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzie. Up next, the
morning calls, plus Bloomberg's Ed
Ledllo previewing next week's CES
conference in Las Vegas. From New York,
this is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's a prove it year. But that actually
makes me more bullish because I think
now we go into the next phase of AI. I
think tech stocks are up 20 25% in
[music] 2026. The two best of physical
AI plays in the world today. It's Nvidia
and it's [music] Tesla. This is
autonomous chapter now coming to Tesla.
>> That was Dan Ives of Wed Bush earlier
this morning with a bullish call in tech
for 2026. You might say, well, he's
always bullish. Well, he's been right
over the past number of years with tech
outperforming. this morning continuing
to outperform with some of the same
winners from 2025 reprising their helm
at the leading pack. NASDAQ futures up
about 1% above S&P futures up about half
a percent and Matt single names also
some of the best gainers in 2025
reclaiming their lead early in 2026.
Yeah, it's really interesting to see
especially these um [music] memory these
DRAM companies doing so well. Um
SanDisk, Western Digital, Seagate
[music]
and uh Micron is one of those like I was
looking at the best performing ETFs of
last year and gold obviously and silver
um are both up there but uh two or three
times leverage Micron ETF and two or
three times leveraged Palunteer ETFs
also among the top 10.
>> Yeah. Well, this definitely is something
that people are looking at once again.
How do you get a broadening out unless
you get these particular names
continuing to post gains and show
profitability in the bond space? You are
seeing a bit of a bid after some earlier
volatility about a basis point lower. In
the 10-year, the 30-year actually losing
some of that advance. You're seeing
4.84%
essentially flat on the day. And in the
metal space, as Matt was just talking
about, gold and silver last year, best
year since 1979, silver up another 3.4%,
gold up another 2%, aluminum hitting
that $3,000 a ton mark for the first
[music] time in more than 3 years, up
almost a percent. Time now for the
morning calls. First up, Mazuo raising
its price target on Chipotle to $36
[music]
and maintaining a neutral rating,
believing the stock's current valuation
appropriately reflects its new long-term
Avita growth algorithm. their shares up
almost half a percent. Next up, Berkeley
is upgrading Vertive to Overweight with
a $200 price target, viewing the recent
sell-off as an attractive entry point
[music] and seeing substantial upside to
Verdives consensus earnings estimates
for [music] the next two years. Those
shares up 4.4% in pre-market trading.
And finally, Athleta Comp doubling uh
upgrading ASML to buy and boosting its
price target to a street high, [music]
citing stronger demand driven by
suppliers alongside orders from China
this year. Those shares up almost 6%.
Sticking with tech, big names in the
industry including Nvidia, AMD, and
Samsung ready to advocate for artificial
intelligence at the CES conference next
week. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo joins us now
before he heads to Las Vegas to cover
the CES. What are you expecting at this
year's conference?
>> Yeah, I mean for markets it's called the
consumer electronics show, right? But
the C part isn't really that
interesting, particularly for the buy
side. It's AI everything and it's it's
kind of an issue of timing that first
week of the year where lots of investors
fly to Las Vegas to meet with the
companies to meet with each other. Um,
Nvidia is kind of the mainstay of it.
It's interesting. Nvidia is not
officially a keynote speaker of CES this
year, but they're holding their own Las
Vegas event and there's real
expectations going into that that you
will hear substantive commentary about
AI infrastructure supply chain and that
because of that you get real earnings
visibility. You know, a year ago it was
kind of just before uh President Trump
returned to the White House and and it
was very political what was being
discussed trying to preempt tariffs. But
the one thing I'd add is Matt is
absolutely right to bring up DRAM
because across electronics right now the
pricing and supply chain pressure is
starting to come back a little bit. HP
DRAM. I know all about it cuz I watch
your show. Ed Lllo also co-anchors
Bloomberg Tech of course. Ed, uh, you
also cover cars pretty deeply and the
intersection between cars and tech has
been highlighted by the CES events of
the last, you know, 5 to 10 years. Um
Dan Ies earlier telling us that the two
biggest AI plays are Nvidia and Tesla. I
haven't seen any official announcements,
but what are we going to hear from Tesla
at CES?
Well, remember that Boring Co. has
tunnels that connect all of the
different convention centers in Las
Vegas, and it's Tesla vehicles that
drive you through those tunnels. Every
year Ian King, who covers semiconductors
for Bloomberg, would walk the 10 ft from
his desk to my desk this week and say,
"Do we need to write a CES preview about
how it's going to be all about cars?"
And for many years we did until this
year where actually I think that idea
around automotive technology, not just
autonomous driving, but the incar
experience has kind of fizzled out a
bit. Tesla is very selective of where it
kind of um exhibits its products and CES
historically has not been one although
there will you know there's a big
ambition in them for them in 2026 to
expand the robo taxi fleet offer off
offering and you'd expect that Las Vegas
and Nevada is a target because Zuks are
already operating there in the
autonomous driving space and Whimo
recently got approval too.
>> What about deals Ed? I mean, anytime you
have a gathering of the most powerful
executives in uh industry, um you could
expect them to talk to each other, have
their bankers talk to each other, have
their lawyers talk to each other. Do we
see a wave of deals after this? Uh
historically, there are conversations
that take place. And you're you're
exactly right. It's basically like speed
dating. In fact, it's not just the
bankers and and and investors. There are
lots of CEOs in the world of technology
that will go to CES unofficially and
keep a low profile because it's
interesting for them to see the field
but also it's a great opportunity to
have dinners, lunches and do it quickly.
Um and and you know I'm trying to think
wrap my brain for something that may
have come out of CES this year but
particularly like you know supply chain
related things right now there's a lot
of focus on that whether it's like
telematics and sensors that go into cars
um or you know uh on the consumer side
one of the big deals that came out in
2025 is Dell a maker of PCs started
using AMD processors for the first time
that was a major deal that was announced
at CES but that's the interplay right
it's called the consumer consumer
electronic show, but in reality the
attendance and the kind of news flow is
driven by a much higher level of
corporate activity. So that's kind of
those kinds of relationships that you
look out for.
>> Ed, if you take a step back, it seems
like this is the pro it year for
artificial intelligence, a reason for
the broadening out trade that people are
hoping for that the other 493 companies
will spend more money on some of this
technology in order to get an edge or
remain relevant. What are you looking
for at this year's CES to indicate that
that kind of broadening out that
profitability uh backdrop is truly
coming to the coming to the four?
>> Yeah, I I don't want to contradict
myself necessarily. That's where the C
or the consumer part is important. So,
for example, if we take DRAM or memory
chips, prices are going really high
because memory chips are in short
supply. They're going into uh the high
bandwidth memory stack. It's layered up
DRAM that goes into data centers. A
consequence of that is that PC prices
are getting higher and higher because
the cost of manufacturing is higher
because of the DRAM. There isn't
actually that much evidence that
consumers are that interested in AIP
PCs. And if you look at the forecast for
the global PC market in 26, um it ranges
from IDC saying it will shrink 9% to
others like Omdia saying it will
basically be flat or grow because of
AIPC.
there's probably not been that much love
reflected uh for those names in the
market where there is a direct consumer
play on AI and and like smartphones and
PCs are part of them. You know, Qualcomm
will be there at CES and they kind of
felt a little bit agrieved that their
competence in processors specifically
for AI smartphones hasn't sort of been
realized by the market. So, that's how
I'd say it. I'd say like, is there any
actually tangible evidence, Lisa, that
all this AI stuff, it actually means
anything to anyone that's attending
there? And then that shows up in the
sales data for the coming 12 months.
>> Well, Matt Miller here spends three and
a half hours on Chat GBT a day to uh get
tips on his motorcycle and car repairs.
What about you, Ed? How much do you
spend, not necessarily on Chat GBT, but
just in general with different AI tools?
>> A lot. Hours of of the day. And like,
it's really interesting because I wish
there was a better way to track it. you
know, chat GPT I use in research and
like going through dense documents and
and um you know, sellside notes. Like if
you have a ton of cellside notes, it's
really useful to run them through chat
GBT and look at like um you know uh
comparisons, compare and contrast, etc.
On the way into work, right, I use Tesla
full self-driving. So my car drives the
30 miles or so from my house to the
office and I use Grock, which is XAI's
chatbot in the car because it's
hands-free. I can just chat with it. Um,
but again like that's different because
Chad GBT at Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg Television Bloom
Media, we have a corporate subscription
for that. I'm not paying $20 myself
personally for each of these different
services. Some of them I do, but some of
them we have access to through our
employer. That's also to answer your
last question going to be another part
of the story. Like where is it that the
consumer is willing to spend on
software?
>> Ed Ledllo, thank you so much for being
with us. And Matt Miller, you pay for
it, don't you? I pay I have my corporate
subscription. I also pay for a private
subscription because I don't need to mix
those two things. And I pay for Gemini
as well. So
>> there you go. An equal opportunity user.
Have you ever done tell me about myself
and it gives you like a profile based on
everything that you've looked at. It's
really quite interesting.
>> I never will. [laughter]
>> Well, it's like a chatb horoscope.
Coming up, R.J. Gallow of Federated
Investment Management with US Treasuries
extending their gains after their best
year since 2020. Plus, Lizzie Burton
with your morning movers. Wayfair and RH
up as President Trump delays some
furniture tariffs. This is Bloomber
Surveillance.
[music]
Seeing a lift to start 2026. Good
morning. Led by big tech finishing off
where picking up where we finished off
in 2025. [music]
NASDAQ futures up about 1%. S&P futures
up by about a half a percent. You are
seeing a bit of a bid into bonds after
last year's rally. [music] We'll get
into that in just one second. Still
10-year yields at 4.16%. The euro losing
clout versus the dollar. A bit of dollar
strength after the worst performance for
the green back going back to [music]
2017. Still 11721 on Euro dollar cross
and crude uh declining [music] once more
down 8/10en of a percent $56.94
despite some geopolitical tensions. 1
hour away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. Well, I want to start with the
furniture names because of course,
President Trump has delayed his [music]
higher tariffs on upholstered furniture
and kitchen cabinets and vanities until
next year, New Year's Day 2027. They
were meant to kick in yesterday, but he
announced this on Wednesday. And so,
you're [music] seeing the relief for the
likes of RH up more than 5% even though
those 25% tariffs that are already there
will remain in place. [music] turning
over next to do because it's picked Hong
Kong and filed for Hong Kong to have its
listing for its AI chip unit. Now,
[music] this is backing the theme of
China tech that it's expected to see in
this year and lots of names expected to
be listing in Hong Kong this year as
well. So, getting the ball rolling
there. is already up in Hong Kong, its
highest level since 2023 September, and
it's up in the US pre-market as well
[music] by nearly 10%. Just finally
turning back to Tesla. I've mentioned it
all morning, but all eyes really on this
Q4 production and deliveries report that
is expected later on today. We have had
the average analyst estimate saying
they're going to have an 11% drop when
it comes to global vehicle deliveries.
But compare that to what Tesla itself
said earlier in the week. It took the
unprecedented step [music] of releasing
the uh average estimate of according to
its own average and that was a 15%
[music] drop. So more pessimistic and
that disparity perhaps explaining why
it's up in the pre-market. [music] Lisa,
thank you so much. Lizzy, we are getting
delivery numbers across the board. We're
getting Rivian fourth quarter uh
delivery and production numbers coming
in around 10,974.
in terms of production deliveries just
under 10,000. Those shares also up by
about 1.3%. [music]
Turning to the bond space, R.J. Gallow
of Federated Investment Management
writing, "US Treasury yields seem likely
to remain constrained in a narrow range
to start the new year as the US economy
continues to expand." R.J. joins us now.
R.J., I'm really glad you're here. Thank
you so much for being here because this
is to me one of the most confusing parts
of the market. A lot of people think
that there is going to be very muted
action in Treasury yields. at the same
time that a lot of people are saying
inflation is still very much a risk. Why
do you see those two things as
compatible?
>> Well, good morning and happy new year.
Um the those two issues on the surface
are are not directly compatible.
Obviously, the the fact is that the
inflation pressures that we had
experienced have substantially
diminished. They have not diminished
enough to restore the Fed's 2% target.
And I I do think that were it not for
the inflation concerns, the tenure would
be below four right now. Uh and it's and
it's obviously not. So, you know, we're
coming off the tail end of a very
bullish year for fixed income. But the
threats looking forward continue to be
the sort of dichotomy between a
weakening labor market where job
creation has slowed to a crawl, might
even be negative. And inflation
continues to be an issue because you
have fiscal stimulus, you have the
effect of Fed easing, and you have the
AI capital spending all going on at the
same time that high-income households
keep spending. So the Fed's in a tough
spot. I think the inflation risk has not
been uh diminished substantially enough
for for a real bond market rally. And I
think on net we might be hemmed in on
both sides from from that dichotomy.
>> R.J. if we do get a Fed that is
incentivized for a variety of reasons,
most of which is the labor market that
you were just talking about to cut rates
significantly this year or even just by
75 basis points. Do you think that the
10ear and the 30-year will rally or we
will we see an ongoing steepening of the
yield curve akin to what we saw last
year? Our highest conviction bet in 2025
was a steeper yield curve that worked
extraordinarily well. Uh generated some
excess return in our portfolios. It
remains our highest conviction bet as we
enter uh 2026.
It's interesting and Matt I think
mentioned earlier that since the Fed
actually started its easing uh last I
think it was September of last year, the
10-year Treasury yield has actually
edged higher over that time period. Now
on net, the 30-year ended the year up
six basis points even though the 2-year
fell almost 70. So I think the the
engine of steepening persists if the Fed
eases a couple more times as they
struggle with this slow job creation yet
lingering inflation challenge that we
just touched upon. It's quite likely
that the curve will continue to steepen
with the short end going down and you
might even have some cheapening at the
long end. The term premium is heavily
linked to the fact that Fed independence
is in question uh and fiscal stimulus is
is coming through the pipeline as we get
into next year. We think the steepening
will probably still persist.
>> What does that mean for the US economy,
R.J.? I mean um a steeper yield curve
sounds like good for banks, but h how is
it for um you know the industrial
economy?
>> Well, borrowing costs in in the
corporate space spreads are very very
tight and corporations have done well.
earnings have been relatively buoyant.
Uh AI is all that anyone wants to talk
about, but generally speaking, large
companies continue to do relatively well
in what was a pretty volatile 2025.
Corporate bond returns were strong,
spreads are very tight, in our opinion,
a little too tight, so we're a little
underweight uh in the in the corporate
space. Nevertheless, a steeper curve, I
think, will create a challenge for the
Trump administration's priority of
trying to get mortgage rates to fall
substantially. Housing has been
struggling. has detracted from GDP now
uh for most of the last eight quarters.
Uh and that's because mortgage rates are
so high. Mortgage rates are not set off
the 2-year. They're out the curve, set
off the 10-year. So that steepening
curve will probably continue to be a bit
of a challenge for housing. I do think
corporate financing is holding up just
fine. Even though the absolute yields
are relatively high uh and and the
spreads are tight, corporations are are
are certainly hungry for more and more
capital as we've seen.
>> There was a little bit of a concern
about cockroaches last year. It seems to
have abated. Um, still interesting to
see that uh the non-bank lenders are
doing so much worse than the big um Wall
Street banks. Lisa was pointing that out
earlier this week. How how do you expect
that to play out? I mean, are the are
the the bankrupt bankruptcies that we
saw you think idiosyncratic?
Well, the business development companies
are probably like a nice lens. The
equities of business develop the
business BDC's are a nice lens u on
what's going on in in private credit and
obviously they they they've done rather
poorly. Uh yeah, Jamie Diamond's comment
about cockroaches. I think there's
probably some truth to that. Uh I don't
know if cockroaches are going to ruin
the house. um you know it might it might
be a problem in the kitchen and might
need to bring in some exterminators but
generally speaking uh our our our view
on securitized credit uh from what we
can tell and on private credit uh is one
of a bit of concern but I don't think
we're about to throw you know run out of
the house because a few cockroaches in
in the kitchen. So I think it continues
to be a risk. Uh we are we are watching
that risk. I think generally speaking
spreads are tight in in in through
throughout the private capital markets
and as a result we've been a little
cautious on the corporate side. Now on
the asset back side I think we're more
constructive and think that some of the
problems that we saw were somewhat
idiosyncratic even if you find a few
more. Uh it doesn't necessarily mean
like I said they need to run out of the
house. R.J., a lot of people have been
saying this that credit spreads feel too
tight uh for a couple of months now. And
I'm looking right now at uh high yield
bond spreads and they're at some of the
lowest levels that we've seen post
financial crisis. At what point is this
just a factor of money looking for
places to get yield, right? And at what
point do the technicals overwhelm the
fundamentals that might say it feels
just a bit rich?
>> Well, that's a great point. I think that
uh the absolute yield buyers after you
know like a decade of suffering from low
absolute yields have have been very
attracted to the simple fact that
absolute yields are much higher even if
spreads in fact are very very tight. Um,
you know, you mentioned technicals. The
technicals have been on the side of
tightening. You sort of wonder, are we
going to flip that script uh in in 2026?
You you have large structural deficits
in the United States, other developed
countries as well. You've got a huge
capital expenditure need with more
issuance to come from the private
sector. You know, the cumulative effect
here might actually start to go in the
other direction for for quite a while
after Liberation Day. If you want to
rewind to to April, it felt like a
recession was the odds on bet and that
would widen spreads. That didn't happen.
A lot of people overreacted on that
front. It was very common in the
markets. But now it's quite possible
that we would just see a spread widening
on the simple deterioration in the
supply demand mix. In addition to the
fact it might just take a couple of bad
news, bad earnings prints on the payoff
and the returns on AI that could cause a
real re-evaluation on credit risk and
spreads could widen in tech. in that
space and that would be enough to cause
some meaningful widening widening on the
corporate space then we would have to
reassess uh if we get that event
>> given the international focus this year
and the fact that spread widening as
well I mean in in with respect to
sovereign bond yields the idea that
longerterm yields have risen so much it
really has been a global story how much
do you think that the US is going to
really underperform the rest of the
world or do you think that the US could
even outperform even with yield curve st
yield curve steepening because of the
Fed remaining in play.
>> Well, the the central bank divergences
have been pretty stark of late. Uh we
talking earlier about the weakness in
the dollar that was in part uh
contributing to to to the the weakness
in our currency. There was obviously
other big factors going on there as
well. Uh you know, our views for fixed
income total returns in the US, you
know, mid single digits is probably the
the the best you're going to get. We
just got off a period here where we had
the Treasury index, the Bloomberg
Treasury Index was up 6.3%,
best in many years. The aggregate index,
you know, you throw in some corporates
and mortgages, 7.3%. These are very nice
and attractive bond returns, numbers
that often get eclipsed by the double
digits in equities. But there are plenty
of Americans who own fixed income to
complement their equities. And guess
what? They've both done extraordinarily
well. I think the outlook for returns in
the coming year in the US a little bit
diminished relative to those levels yet
still more likely than not [snorts]
significantly positive relative to the
rest of the world. Uh it it's a tough
call. I mean I think that the inflation
threat here is is is a lingering
challenge. The Fed is apt to ease
especially with its change in leadership
coming as President Trump gets to put
more of an imprint on the central bank.
That should be good for fixed income but
maybe not all fixed income. that
steepening curve will will mute the
overall total return. The 2-year fell
almost 70 basis points last year. The
30-year went up six. We could see more
of that dynamic and that would mute the
return profile somewhat. We uh we had a
guest on earlier uh Kathern Rooney Vera
talk about proflegate spending which I
love. Um and we have as you as you
mentioned kind of a threat to the
independence of the Federal Reserve. Um,
is that apt are those two things apt to
drive yields much higher from here?
Because I haven't seen the bond
vigilantes really uh flash their whites
of their teeth yet.
>> Yeah, I mean, we talk about the bond
vigilantes and it seems like, you know,
you know, where are they? I I think
there's a couple things to note. The
Treasury index ended the year at 389. It
started the year at 445.
Uh meanwhile the term premium uh you
know which is a model determined concept
but the term premium steepened out
pretty substantially last year. If you
look at uh the New York Fed's term
premium uh you know it's risen up over
70 basis points. It wasn't that long ago
that it was at zero. So I think that uh
I don't know if it's vigilanteism as
much as it is conservatism that bond
investors, you know, often a little more
cynical or skeptical than our equity
colleagues. uh and and the threats that
you just described, you know, continued
fiscal profleacy, the simple fact that
the central bank is getting uh you know,
a complete changeover in control after
what have been, you know, complete
aggressive attacks from the
administration on the central bank to a
degree that you don't typically see.
You'd have to go back to LBJ uh shoving
the Fed chair up against the wall at his
uh at his Texas ranch to come up with
anything quite as close. Even though I
don't think President Trump assaulted
Jay Powell, but he certainly has
verbally. So when you look at the
threats to the central bank and the
fiscal side that you should see higher
term premia, that's steeper curves,
that's more muted returns at the long
end. That is fiscal that is bond market
conservatism. Maybe not vigilantism, but
conservatism. R.J. Gallow of Federated
Investment Management. Thank you so much
for being with us this morning. Have a
wonderful rest of your weekend. Happy
New Year. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your blooper brief with
Lizzie Burton. Lizzie, hi Lisa. The US
continuing to ramp up the pressure on
Venezuela. The Trump administration
sanctioned Chinese companies and oil
tankers linked to Venezuela. This coming
as the US launches more strikes on
purported drug trafficking and boats.
>> [music]
>> Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro
says that he's open to negotiating with
the US to combat drug trafficking, but
said that the US is trying to force him
from power and gain access to
Venezuela's oil reserves. Elsewhere, we
have Rivian shares rising in the
pre-market after its delivery numbers
slightly beat estimates in the fourth
quarter. The EV maker produced nearly
11,000 cars in Illinois and delivered
over 9,700
during the same period.
>> [music]
>> Rivian also announcing that it'll
release its fourth quarter and fullyear
financial results on February 12th. And
in sports, the college football
quarterfinals took center stage over the
holiday in a New Year's Eve stunner
Miami shocked the defending champs Ohio
State 24-4. Meanwhile, [music] topseated
Indiana remained perfect, crushing
Alabama 38-3 in the Rose Bowl.
Elsewhere, Oregon shut out Texas Tech 23
for nothing. And I'm going to get it
right this time. Miss outlasted Georgia
in a 39-34 thriller. Olay, that should
be my brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Lizzie. Olay. Indeed.
Up next, setting you up for the day
ahead, including a preview of Tesla's
sales numbers after, as Lizzie was
mentioning, we did just get Rivian from
New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> We are just at such at this early stage
of people really thinking about pros or
production for security or resiliency
that there's a lot more going on. We're
going to see this we're going to see
this through the electricity industry
whether it's nuclear. I I just think and
again this is an administration that is
well aware that if stocks are not doing
well coming into the midterms it does
not bode well. So look for lots of
pushes to get the stock market going.
>> That was Peter Shear of Academy
Securities in a brilliant look at what
he's looking for this year particularly
with his prosec outlook on the world
right now. You are seeing optimism to
start 2026 led by guess what big tech uh
leading the charge here up about a
percent. S&P futures up a half a
percent. You are seeing just a bit of
dollar strength in despite what some
people are saying could be another year
of dollar weakness. Euro 11721 versus
the dollar. A bit of a bid into bonds
but fading as the market grows older.
10-year yields 4.16% and silver. Another
fantastic day after a fantastic year of
148% gains, 32%
gains this morning in early trading.
Counting down to the opening bell.
Here's the trading diary for the week
ahead. On Tuesday, CES kicking off in
Las Vegas. Watch some of the
innovations. Wednesday, ADP data, jolts,
and ISM services. Finally, the data
comes. Thursday, another round of
jobless claims and the trade balance. On
Friday, the big one, the December
payrolls report, the first clean read
since the government shutdown. Also,
University of Michigan sentiment survey.
Before we get to all of that, Tesla set
to follow Rivian to report its global
fourth quarter sales shortly. Analysts
expecting deliveries to fall 11% from a
year earlier, while Tesla is even more
pessimistic, calling for a 15% drop.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Craig
Trudel. Craig, thank you so much for
being with us. First, can you just give
us a sense of what happened here? Why
Tesla tried to get out ahead of analysts
as to that were surveyed by Bloomberg by
giving a pessimistic outlook before this
number.
>> Yeah, this was uh quite a curveball.
We're used to getting those from Elon
Musk to be fair, but uh this for the
first time the company posted on its IR
website uh a consensus. So they put out
uh averages uh both for for uh the
fourth quarter, for the full year and
actually going out a few years. And uh
consistently whether you were looking at
fourth quarter or uh you know for for
full year 2025 even out the next couple
of years you actually saw the company
compiled consensus that Tesla put out
was more pessimistic than what uh you
know the an analyst averages uh that
that we compile on the Bloomberg
terminal. So uh this was a bit of a
surprise and I think was sort of widely
perceived as as the company kind of
lowering the bar for itself going into
into today's print. So if we see a drop
of uh I don't know 15% as the most
pessimistic average would suggest or
even 10%
um it makes me wonder about EV sales
growth in general you know beyond Tesla
both in the US and and globally aren't
we still seeing gains
>> I think you know when you look at at BYD
which actually just reported yesterday
uh we are both seeing uh you know their
sales continue to to grow and yet uh
some softness in their numbers relative
to the last couple of years. So I I
think globally you're seeing the
momentum in battery electric vehicle
sales growth uh you know really sort of
losing steam. Uh in the US I think it's
going to be a different story rather
than just uh losing momentum some
possibility that you actually see sales
declines. And I think you know certainly
in the in the near term that feels
likely just because in the third quarter
we saw such strong demand to try and
take advantage of the federal tax
credits that went away after the end of
September. and we you know are widely
expected to see huge payback for that in
the fourth quarter and that probably
will carry on into the early part of
this year. I I I think in terms of uh in
Europe it's maybe a different story
where you know we've seen Tesla be
really weak in this region and the
Chinese uh players led by BYD are really
sort of taking off uh even despite you
know some some trade protectionism some
tariffs that went in into play in late
2024. What what does this mean, Craig,
for EV sales, you know, beyond uh Tesla
in this quarter for for the for the
world over the next three, four, five
years? Because we've started seeing a
roll back in uh regulations as well. I
thought, you know, Europe wasn't going
to allow any more gas vehicles, new gas
vehicles to be sold um after 2035, but
that apparently is changing as well.
>> Yeah. And and that was another big
development in December that was very
interesting to see. I I think it was
somewhat incremental and at least on
headline figures where instead of uh you
know aiming for 100% reduction in new
vehicle CO2 emissions by 2035 that
number is going to go down to 90%. But
there's you know sort of uh you know
little ways in which you can sort of
fudge that number to some degree as
well. So uh I think in short we're going
to see a longer leash for hybrid
vehicles uh you know particularly h
plug-in hybrids in in Europe. in in the
US I expect to see more conventional
hybrids that that don't even have uh
plugs. You think of the sort of uh base
Toyota Prius, those have been selling
really strongly. you have a sort of, you
know, situation where more and more
manufacturers are sort of throwing in
the towel on battery electric vehicles
because uh, you know, they have have
struggled to to make them pencil. And
Ford, I think, was was probably the
biggest example of that late last year
to to announce that they were going to
take 19.5 billion dollars in charges
related to unwinding various electric
vehicle projects, doing away with the
F-150 Lightning. That was a huge
development and we should probably
expect more of those sorts of
announcements to come from some of their
competitors that similarly are going to
struggle to sell EVs in this new
environment without those federal tax
credits.
>> Craig, just quickly taking a step back
and looking at 2025, how much of some of
the sales declines for the likes of
Tesla were because Elon Musk is such a
lightning rod versus just the incentives
went away and you're seeing Rivian also
with declining sales and deliveries
versus last year versus 2024.
I think no doubt Musk hurt Tesla last
year. I think you know there are some
questions about whether or not some of
the uh you know revolt against Musk has
dissipated somewhat. Uh we're going to
see in in you know the months to come uh
you know I guess an easy comparison for
the company. So if we continue to see uh
declines for Tesla you know in the next
couple of quarters it's going to be
really troublesome in terms of you know
the the state of this company's sort of
here andout business. Thus far, he's
managed to keep everybody focused on the
future and on robo taxis, but there too,
I think there's been some some letd
downs in terms of execution and, you
know, some questions about how much that
can continue in in in the months to
come.
>> Craig Trudell of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for being with us. And uh Matt
Miller, are you didn't look for an
electric motorcycle as you Google
ChibiTBT
some of the uh the new details? I have
uh ridden some pretty impressive
electric motorcycles. I mean 10 years
ago I started riding um electric
motorcycles. I haven't bought one uh
yet, but we are going to see electric
motorcycle racing um manufactured by
Ducati in Moto GP, which is the top
class in the world. So it could uh it
could become something that you you see
more and more often,
>> but you don't hear because they're
silent, which is kind of a lovely uh
feature here. Matt Miller, thank you so
much for being with us. It has been such
a delight to have you. Coming up on
Monday, Lorie Koscina of RBC Capital
Markets, Ed Yardeni of Yardi Research,
Lisa Charlotte of Morgan Stanley, and
Anichi Bahave of Bank of America
Securities. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance as we bring you into the
new year. Happy New Year. This is
Bloomberg.